We face significant competition from both Indian and international producers of Basmati and other rice and other food products.
We compete for customers principally on the basis of product selection, product quality, reliability of supply, processing capacity, brand
recognition, distribution capability and pricing. With respect to our Basmati rice, we compete with numerous types of competitors in the fragmented and
unorganized Basmati rice market, from other large Indian processors to smaller businesses in India and around the world. Basmati rice has historically only
been grown successfully in certain states in North India and in a part of the Punjab region located in Pakistan – all regions with a climate conducive to
growing Basmati rice. In addition, a type of rice grown in California and Texas, among other places, is also marketed as Basmati rice to compete with our
products.
Many of our competitors in the markets for our rice and other food products have a broader product selection, greater processing capacity, brand
recognition advantages in certain Indian and international markets, and significantly greater financial and operational resources. Also, since there are no
substantial barriers to entry to the markets for our rice and other food products, increased consolidation and particularly a more organized Basmati market
could decrease our market share or result in lower selling prices for our products or higher costs to purchase our raw materials, thereby reducing our earnings.
Our growth significantly depends on our ability to penetrate and increase the acceptance of our Basmati rice and other products in new Indian
and international markets.
Our growth will significantly depend on our ability to penetrate and increase the acceptance of our Basmati rice and other products in new Indian
and international markets. This will not only require some customization of our products to different geographical markets having distinct tastes and
preferences, but may also cause us to implement new sales strategies and practices. The strategies we adopt may not be appropriate or adequate, or we may not
be able to efficiently implement such strategies, which may require us to alter our growth plans, resulting in substantial loss of investment in terms of time
and capital and harm to our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may not be able to successfully implement our new initiatives, such
as our ready-to-eat snacks or efforts to further penetrate Indian modern retail and international markets, or realize the anticipated benefits from such
initiatives, and any unforeseen costs or losses could harm our business, reputation and financial condition.
Our inability to manage our growth could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.
Our business and operations have grown significantly in recent years and we currently expect to continue to expand the number of our employees
and the scope of our operations. To effectively manage this anticipated growth, we must continue to enhance our managerial, operational, financial and
reporting systems and expand our facilities. We expect that these measures will require significant expenditures and will demand the attention of
management. Our failure to manage our growth effectively may result in our over- or under-investing in our operations; weaknesses in our infrastructure,
systems and controls; and operational inefficiencies, including loss of business opportunities, loss of employees and reduced productivity among remaining
employees. Our expected growth will require significant capital expenditures and investments in inventory, and may divert financial resources from other
projects, such as the development of new products. If our management is unable to effectively manage our expected growth, our expenses may increase more
than expected, our revenue could decline or grow more slowly than expected and we may be unable to implement our business strategy, any of which could
harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.
5
We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which could have a material adverse ef ect on our financial health and our ability to obtain
financing in the future.
We have incurred a substantial amount of debt totaling $211.0 million, $184.8 million and $161.6 million as of March 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013,
respectively. The aggregate amount outstanding under our various financing arrangements as of March 31, 2015 was $211.0 million, of which $1.4 million
consisted of our non-current (long-term) debt and $209.6 million consisted of our current (short-term) debt, comprised primarily of our secured revolving
credit facilities.
Our significant amount of debt could limit our ability to operate our business and impair our competitive position. For example, it could:
· limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions;
· limit our ability to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us or at all;
· require us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations for paying the principal of and interest on our indebtedness, thereby
reducing funds available for other corporate purposes; and
· make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures.
As of March 31, 2015, our outstanding current (short-term) debt, amounting to $209.6 million and comprising substantially all of our debt, bears
interest at floating rates. Any upward movements in these interest rates would increase the interest costs of such loans and could harm our financial condition.
The agreements and instruments governing our debt place specified limitations on incurrence of additional debt. Despite current indebtedness
levels, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. However, if new debt is added to our and our
subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the related risks would intensify.
We may not be able to generate suf icient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations
under our indebtedness, which may not be successful.
Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance,
which is highly sensitive to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We
cannot assure you that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and
interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay
investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may
not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. If our operating results and available cash are insufficient to meet our
debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt
service and other obligations. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them, and these
proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. Any future refinancing of our indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and
may require us to comply with more onerous covenants which could further restrict our business operations.
6
The terms of our existing debt agreements may restrict our ability to operate and grow our business.
Our agreements with certain banks and financial institutions for short-term and long-term debt contain restrictive covenants, including, but not
limited to, requirements that we obtain consent from the lenders prior to altering our capital structure or Amira India’s organizational documents, effecting
any merger or consolidation with another company, restructuring or changing our management, declaring or paying dividends under certain circumstances,
undertaking major projects or expansions, incurring further debt, undertaking guarantee obligations which permit certain lenders to claim funds invested in
us by our management or principal shareholders, entering into long-term or otherwise material contractual obligations, investing in affiliates, creating any
charge or lien on our assets or sale of any hypothecated assets or undertaking any trading activities other than the sale of products arising out of our
manufacturing operations. Also, we are required to maintain a current ratio (the ratio of the book value of our current assets to our current liabilities
outstanding, including current debt as per statutory requirements) of at least 1.33 during the term of our secured revolving credit facilities for Amira India.
Certain of our other credit facilities also include various financial covenants, but such facilities are not material. We may not be able to comply with such
financial or other terms or be able to obtain the consents from our lenders necessary to take the actions that we believe are required to operate and grow our
business.
We may require additional financing in the form of debt or equity to meet our working capital requirements.
Our business requires substantial working capital, primarily because Basmati rice must be aged for approximately 10 to 12 months before it reaches
premium quality. Accordingly, we need to maintain a sufficient stock of Basmati paddy and rice at all times to meet processing requirements, which leads to
higher inventory holding costs and increased working capital needs. In addition, we may need additional capital to develop our new processing facility and
additional company-managed distribution centers in India and across the world.
We meet our working capital requirements largely by debt incurred under our revolving credit facilities, which we typically need to renew in a year
or less. Sources of financing have historically included commercial banks under such credit facilities and equity investments. If we decide to incur more debt,
our interest payment obligations will increase and our lenders may impose additional restrictions on our business which could result in reduced cash flows. If
we decide to issue equity, the new equity will dilute the ownership interest of our existing shareholders.
We may not be able to raise adequate financing on acceptable terms, in time, or at all. Since the second half of fiscal 2008, disruption in the global
financial markets has made obtaining additional financing in India more difficult. For example, due to inflation in India, the Reserve Bank of India has raised
interest rates since 2011, thereby substantially increasing our borrowing costs there. Moreover, restrictions on foreign investment in India may limit our
ability to obtain financing for Amira India. See “Restrictions on foreign investment in India may prevent us and other persons from making future
acquisitions or investments in India, which may harm our results of operations and financial condition” in this section. Our failure to obtain sufficient
financing or maintain our existing credit facilities could harm our results of operations and financial condition and result in the delay or abandonment of our
development plans.
Our inability to meet the quality requirements of our customers or to anticipate and adapt to changes in market demand could reduce demand for
our products and harm our sales.
Our results of operations and growth strategy depend upon the demand for Basmati rice and our other food products in the Indian and international
markets. Demand for our products depends primarily on consumer-related factors such as demographics, local preferences and food consumption trends and
macroeconomic factors such as general economic condition and the level of consumer confidence. We are also subject to regulation by the countries or
regions where our customers are located, such as the European Union (“EU”) and the United States (“US” or the “U.S.”), relating to the quantity, quality,
characteristics and variety of the Basmati rice and other food products sold there. Authorities may upgrade or change these regulations from time to time. Our
international customers often require that the rice we sell matches their quality standards and conduct sample checks on our products. The results from their
sample checks may not reflect the quality of the rice we deliver to them and the rice we sell to them may not comply with their quality specifications or
requirements. If our customers’ sample checks identify any deficiencies in our rice, they will generally have the right to return the entire batch we sold to
them. Consumer preferences often change over time, and, if we are not able to anticipate, identify or develop and market products that respond to changes in
consumer preferences, demand for our products may decline. We must, on a regular basis, keep pace with the quality requirements and consumer preferences
of our Indian and international customers, invest continuously in new technology and processes to provide the desired quality product and continually
monitor and adapt to the changing market demand. Any failure to meet the quality requirements of our customers or to anticipate and adapt to changes in
market demand could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.
7
We face risks associated with our international business.
In fiscal 2015, 2014 and 2013, we generated 59.0%, 59.1% and 54.3%, respectively, of our revenue outside India and we expect to increase our
international presence over time. We currently have international offices in Malaysia, Singapore, the United Arab Emirates (“UAE”), the United Kingdom, the
United States and Germany, and we sell our products throughout Asia Pacific, EMEA and North America. Our existing and planned international business
operations are subject to a variety of risks, including:
· difficulties in staffing and managing foreign and geographically dispersed operations;
· compliance with various foreign laws, including local labor laws and regulations, where we operate throughout the world (as applicable);
· government expropriation of assets;
· changes in or uncertainties relating to foreign rules and regulations that may harm our ability to sell our products;
· tariffs, export or import restrictions, restrictions on remittances abroad, imposition of duties or taxes that limit our ability to move our products
out of these countries or interfere with the import of essential materials into these countries;
· increase in withholding and other taxes, or limitations on remittances and other payments by foreign subsidiaries or strategic partners;
· varying and possibly overlapping tax regimes, including the risk that the countries in which we operate will impose taxes on inter-company
relationships;
· economic, political or social instability in foreign countries;
· the enforceability of legal agreements and judgments in foreign countries;
· an inability, or reduced ability, to protect our intellectual property; and
· government subsidies or other incentives that favor local competitors.
For example, in fiscal 2013, a foreign government seized a shipment of our rice in the course of transshipment and although we legally are
challenging the foreign government’s seizure, we may not succeed in this legal challenge. For more information, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—
Legal Proceedings”.
We currently expect to expand in our existing and additional target international markets, but our expansion plans may not be successful. Failure of,
or delay in, our expansion plans could significantly harm our business, reputation and financial condition.
We may not be successful in identifying and acquiring suitable acquisition targets or making strategic investments, which could adversely af ect
our growth.
We have in the past expanded, and intend to expand in the future, our operations and markets through acquisitions or strategic investments. The
identification and completion of such acquisitions or investments are dependent upon various factors, including satisfactory completion of due diligence,
negotiation of definitive agreements and our ability to compete with other entities to acquire attractive targets. There is no assurance that in the future we will
be able to identify and acquire appropriate acquisition targets on commercially acceptable terms, if at all, or will have sufficient capital to fund such
acquisitions or investments. Failure to identify and acquire suitable acquisition targets or to make strategic investments in the future could adversely affect
our growth.
Adverse conditions in the global economy and disruption of financial markets may prevent the successful development and commercialization of
our products, as well as significantly harm our results of operations and ability to generate revenue and become profitable.
As a global company, we are subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in global economic and market conditions. The worldwide economy
has been experiencing significant economic turbulence, and global credit and capital markets have experienced substantial volatility and disruption. These
adverse conditions and general concerns about the fundamental soundness of Indian and international economies could limit our existing and potential
partners’ and suppliers’ ability or willingness to invest in new technologies or capital. Moreover, these economic and market conditions could negatively
impact our current and prospective customers’ ability or desire to purchase and pay for our products, or negatively impact our operating costs or the prices for
our products. Changes in governmental banking, monetary and fiscal policies to address liquidity and increase credit availability may not be effective.
Significant government investment and allocation of resources to assist the economic recovery of various sectors which do not include the food industry may
reduce the resources available for government grants and related funding that could assist our expansion plans or otherwise benefit us. Any one of these
events, and continuation or further deterioration of these financial and macroeconomic conditions, could prevent the successful and timely development and
commercialization of our products, as well as significantly harm our results of operations and ability to generate revenue and become profitable.
8
We derive a significant portion of our income from international sales of Basmati rice, which may be dependent upon the economies and
government policies of the key countries to which we sell; any unfavorable change in such economies or government policies may harm our
business.
We sell Basmati rice and other specialty rice to customers in over 60 countries with significant portions of our international sales to Asia Pacific,
EMEA and North America. We currently plan to expand our international operations into additional countries in the near future. For fiscal 2015, our
international revenue accounted for 59.0% of our total revenue. If an economic slowdown or other factors adversely affect the economic health of the
countries to which we sell, our international customers may reduce or postpone their orders, which may in turn lower the demand for our products and harm
our revenue and profitability. Our rice may not comply with the applicable policies of the countries where we sell it and be returned to us. For instance, a
change to a more stringent EU standard on the level of the pesticide isoprothiolane in Basmati rice in September 2008 led to a significant overall decrease in
sales of Basmati rice to the EU. In November 2012, the EU standard reverted to the 2008 level.
In addition, any change in government policies and regulations, including any ban imposed on a particular variety of rice by a government, or any
duties, pre-conditions or ban imposed by a country to which we sell our products, might harm our international sales. The loss of any significant international
rice market because of such events or conditions could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our international sales are also
exposed to certain political and economic and other related risks inherent to exporting products, including exposure to potentially unfavorable changes in
tax or other laws, a reduction in import subsidies, partial or total expropriation and the risks of war, terrorism and other civil disturbances in our international
markets. We do not carry insurance coverage that would provide us coverage against all such risks.
We may also be subject to certain sanctions imposed on, or reductions in import subsidies by, the countries or regions where our international
customers are located. Further, we provide credit to our customers in connection with most of our international sales of Basmati rice, so, if any sanctions are
imposed on the countries to which we sell, our collection of international receivables may be significantly delayed. Import subsidies may be removed by, and
international sanctions may be imposed on, any Basmati importing countries in the future, and we may have reduced sales or not be able to collect revenue
from all sales made there on a credit basis, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.
We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and exchange control risks, which may harm our results of operations and cause
our quarterly results to fluctuate.
Our operating expenses are denominated primarily in Indian Rupees; however, 59.0% of our total revenue for fiscal 2015 was denominated in other
currencies, typically in U.S. dollars and occasionally in Euros, GBP and UAE Dirham, due to our international sales. In addition, some of our capital
expenditures, and particularly those for equipment imported from international suppliers, are denominated in foreign currencies and we expect our future
capital expenditure in connection with our proposed expansion plans to include significant expenditure in foreign currencies for imported equipment and
machinery. A significant fluctuation in the Indian Rupee and U.S. dollar and other foreign currency exchange rates could therefore have a significant impact
on our results of operations. The exchange rate between the Indian Rupee and these currencies, primarily the U.S. dollar, has fluctuated in the past and any
appreciation or depreciation of the Indian Rupee against these currencies can impact our profitability and results of operations. Such fluctuations have
affected our results of operations in the past and may do so again in the future. For example, the Indian Rupee has depreciated against the U.S. dollar over the
past two years, which may affect our results of operations in future periods. Any amounts we spend to hedge the risks to our business due to fluctuations in
currencies may not adequately protect us against any losses we incur due to such fluctuations.
We may be unable to adequately protect or continue to use our intellectual property; failure to protect such intellectual property may harm our
business.
The success of our business, in part, depends on our continued ability to use the “Amira” name and other intellectual property to increase awareness
of the “Amira” name. We attempt to protect these intellectual property rights through available copyright and trademark laws. Despite these precautions,
existing copyright and trademark laws afford only limited practical protection in certain countries, and the actions taken by us may be inadequate to prevent
imitation by others of the “Amira” name and other intellectual property. In addition, if the applicable laws in these countries are drafted or interpreted in ways
that limit the extent or duration of our rights, or if existing laws are changed, our ability to generate revenue from our intellectual property may decrease, or
the cost of obtaining and maintaining rights may increase. We also distribute our Amira branded products in some countries in which there is no trademark
protection. As a result, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy and distribute our Amira branded products or certain portions or applications
of our Amira branded products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. If we fail
to register the appropriate trademarks or our other efforts to protect relevant intellectual property prove to be inadequate, the value of the Amira name could
decrease, which could harm our business and results of operations.
9
We have also initiated legal proceedings against certain parties for infringement of our intellectual property rights. For instance, Amira India has
filed multiple legal proceedings before various courts and forums in India against a number of third parties for infringement of the trademarks “Amira” and
“Guru.” Amira India has successfully sought injunctive relief against a party from deceptively using our trademark “Guru” in one of the cases and in some
cases has sought rectification of the register of trademarks to restrain the third parties from using any mark or label that is identical or deceptively similar to
Amira India’s registered trademarks.
In the future, additional litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary
rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Regardless of the validity or the success of the assertion of any claims, we could
incur significant costs and diversion of resources in enforcing our intellectual property rights or in defending against such claims, which could harm our
business and results of operations.
We are a holding company and are dependent on dividends and other distributions from our subsidiaries, particularly Amira India, which we do
not wholly own, and which will not pay us 100% of any dividend it declares, and whose ability to declare and pay dividends is restricted by loan
covenants and Indian law.
We are a holding company and currently have no direct operations. As a result, we are dependent on dividends and other distributions from our
subsidiaries (in particular, Amira India) for our cash requirements, which would include funds to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our
shareholders. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business and neither
ANFI nor Amira India anticipates paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. Investors’ ownership of us represents a smaller corresponding indirect
ownership interest of Amira India. Should we decide to pay dividends to our shareholders in the future, our ability and decision to pay dividends will depend
on, among other things, the availability of dividends from Amira India. However, under the terms of some of Amira India’s current secured revolving credit
facilities (representing less than 10% of our total debt outstanding as of March 31, 2015), we need the consent of lenders under our current secured revolving
credit facilities to declare dividends for any year except (i) out of profits relating to that year after meeting all the financial commitments to the bank(s) and
making all other due and necessary provisions and (ii) that no default had occurred in any repayment obligations during the year. Amira India has not paid or
declared any cash dividends on its equity. The declaration and payment of any dividends by Amira India in the future will be recommended by its board of
directors and approved by its shareholders at their discretion. Under Indian law, a company declares dividends upon a recommendation by its board of
directors and approval by a majority of the shareholders at the annual general meeting of shareholders. However, while final dividends can be paid out by a
company only after such dividends have been recommended by the board of directors and approved by shareholders, interim dividends can be paid out with
only a recommendation by the board of directors. The shareholders have the right to decrease but not to increase any dividend amount recommended by the
board of directors.
Amira India does not intend to pay dividends to its shareholders, including Amira Mauritius, in the foreseeable future, and may be prevented from
doing so by certain restrictions on paying dividends under Indian law. Amira India may not have sufficient profits in any year or accumulated profits to
permit payment of dividends to its shareholders. We do not own 100% of Amira India and therefore any dividend payment made by Amira India to us will
also involve a payment to the other shareholders of Amira India, including Mr. Karan A. Chanana, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and his
affiliates. Although we believe that ANFI will have sufficient funds to fund its expenses for the foreseeable future, it may not be practicable for us to use
dividends from Amira India to provide ANFI with funds for its expenses, and we can provide no assurance that ANFI will not require more funds than we
originally expect for expenses.
Insiders have substantial control over us; ownership by insiders of our ordinary shares and ownership by our Chairman and Chief Executive
Of icer of direct and indirect equity interests in Amira India may give rise to conflicts of interest with our public shareholders.
Mr. Karan A. Chanana, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and his affiliates, including various companies controlled by him and direct
members of his family, and certain of our other directors, directly or indirectly hold approximately 69.5% (including share options granted and vested) of the
outstanding ordinary shares of ANFI. Accordingly, these shareholders are able to control all matters requiring approval by holders of a majority of our
outstanding ordinary shares, including the election of all the members of our board of directors (which allow them day-to-day control of our management and
affairs), amendments to our memorandum and articles of association, our winding up and dissolution, and other significant corporate transactions.
Specifically, they are able to approve any sale of more than 50% in value of our assets, and certain mergers or consolidations involving us, a continuation of
the company into a jurisdiction outside the BVI, or our voluntary liquidation. As a result, they can cause, delay or prevent a change of control of us, and
generally preclude any unsolicited acquisition of us, even if such events would provide our public shareholders an opportunity to receive a premium for their
ordinary shares, or are otherwise in the best interests of our public shareholders.
10
In addition, Mr. Karan A. Chanana and certain of his affiliates, including various companies controlled by him and certain members of his family,
hold a significant minority equity interest in Amira India, an entity through which we conduct a significant portion of our operations. These shareholders
may have conflicting interests with our public shareholders. For example, if Amira India indirectly makes distributions to us, Mr. Karan A. Chanana and his
affiliates will also be entitled to receive distributions pro rata in accordance with their percent of ownership in Amira India, and their preferences as to the
timing and amount of any such distributions may differ from those of our public shareholders. In addition, the structuring of future transactions may take into
consideration tax or other ramifications to Mr. Karan A. Chanana and these affiliates even where there would be no similar implication to us or our public
shareholders.
Mr. Karan A. Chanana and Ms. Anita Daing have also issued personal guarantees in favor of lead banks or lenders of certain of our credit facilities;
in the event of a default under these credit facilities, the lenders may seek payment from Mr. Chanana and/ or Ms. Daing. As a result of these guarantees, Mr.
Chanana and Ms. Daing may have a conflicting interest with our shareholders or other creditors of the Company. However, ANFI has indemnified its directors
and officers, including Mr. Chanana and Ms. Daing, in accordance with its amended and restated memorandum and articles of association and
indemnification agreements entered into with such directors and officers. Such indemnification includes indemnification for Mr. Chanana’s and Ms. Daing’s
personal guarantees described above.
If the transfer pricing arrangements we have among our subsidiaries are determined to be inappropriate, our tax liability may increase.
We have transfer pricing arrangements among our Indian, Dubai, UK, Germany, and U.S. subsidiaries. U.S. and Indian transfer pricing regulations, as
well as regulations applicable in other countries in which we operate, require that any international transaction involving associated enterprises be on arm’s
length terms. We consider the transactions among our subsidiaries to be on arm’s length terms. If, however, a tax authority in any jurisdiction reviews any of
our tax returns and determines that the transfer prices and terms we have applied are not appropriate, or that other income of our affiliates should be taxed in
that jurisdiction, we may incur increased tax liability, including accrued interest and penalties, which would cause our tax expense to increase, possibly
materially, thereby reducing our profitability and cash flows.
Risks Related to India
A substantial portion of our business and operations are located in India; we are subject to regulatory, economic, social and political
uncertainties in India.
A substantial portion of our business and employees are located in India and we intend to continue to develop and expand our business in India.
Consequently, our financial performance and the market price of our ordinary shares will be affected by changes in exchange rates and controls, interest rates,
changes in government policies, including taxation policies, social and civil unrest and other political, social and economic developments in or affecting
India.
The Government of India has exercised and continues to exercise significant influence over many aspects of the Indian economy. Since 1991,
successive Indian governments have generally pursued policies of economic liberalization and financial sector reforms, including by significantly relaxing
restrictions on the private sector. Nevertheless, the role of the Indian central and state governments in the Indian economy as producers, consumers and
regulators has remained significant and we cannot assure you that such liberalization policies will continue. The present government, formed in May 2014,
has announced policies and taken initiatives that support the continued economic liberalization policies that previous governments have pursued. The rate
of economic liberalization could change, and specific laws and policies affecting food companies, foreign investments, currency exchange rates and other
matters affecting investments in India could change as well. Further, protests against privatizations and government corruption scandals, which have occurred
in the past, could slow the pace of liberalization and deregulation. A significant change in India’s policy of economic liberalization and deregulation or any
social or political uncertainties could significantly harm business and economic conditions in India generally and our business and prospects.
The Government of India has previously banned the export of certain of our products, and future changes in the regulation of our sales to
international markets may harm our results of operations and financial condition.
While we currently produce or procure the majority of our products in India, we generated 59.0% of our revenue in fiscal 2015 from products we sold
outside India, substantial portion of such international revenue are subject to the Government of India’s export controls. Unfavorable changes in, or
interpretations of, existing Indian laws, rules and regulations, or the adoption of new Indian laws, rules and regulations applicable to us and our business, may
harm our results of operations and financial condition. Such unfavorable changes could decrease our ability to supply our products, increase our costs or
subject us to additional liabilities. For example, from October 2007 to September 2011, the Government of India prohibited the export of non-Basmati rice
from India. In addition, the Government of India has in the past and may in the future impose export duties or other export restrictions on our products that
could harm our business and financial condition. The Government of India also determines the Minimum Export Price (“MEP”), which is the minimum price
below which rice (except Basmati rice) cannot be exported from India, and so could at any time increase the prices at which we may sell our non-Basmati rice
products outside India. While the Government of India terminated the MEP for Basmati rice in July 2012, the Government of India may in the future
reinstitute the MEP for Basmati rice. Any increase or reinstitution of the MEP above our then current prices could decrease our international sales and harm
our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, any other duties or tariffs, adverse changes in export policy or other export restrictions enacted
by the Government of India and related to our international business could harm our results of operations and financial condition.
11
As the Indian market constitutes a significant source of our revenue, a slowdown in economic growth in India could cause our business to suf er.
In fiscal 2015, we derived 41.0% of our revenue from sales in India. Based on latest information from the CIA World Factbook, estimates for
consumer inflation in India was 10% in 2013 and 8% in 2014. The performance and growth of our business are necessarily dependent on economic
conditions prevalent in India, which may be significantly harmed by political instability, regional conflicts and economic slowdown elsewhere in the world
or otherwise. The Indian economy also remains largely driven by the performance of the agriculture sector which depends on the quality of the monsoon,
which is difficult to predict. Although the Indian economy has grown significantly, any future slowdown in the Indian economy could harm the demand for
the products we sell and, as a result, harm our results of operations and financial condition. India’s trade relationships with other countries and its trade deficit
may significantly harm Indian economic conditions. If trade deficits increase or are no longer manageable, the Indian economy, and therefore our business,
our financial performance and the price of our ordinary shares could be significantly harmed. India also faces major challenges in sustaining its growth, which
include the need for substantial infrastructure development and improved access to healthcare and education. If India’s economic growth cannot be sustained
or otherwise slows down significantly, our business and prospects could be significantly harmed.
Restrictions on foreign investment in India may prevent us and other persons from making future acquisitions or investments in India, which may
harm our results of operations and financial condition.
India regulates ownership of Indian companies by foreigners and, although some restrictions on foreign investment and borrowing from foreign
persons have been relaxed in recent years, these regulations and restrictions may still apply to acquisitions by us or our affiliates, including Amira Mauritius
and other affiliates which are not resident in India, of shares in Indian companies, or the provision of funding by us or any other entity which is not resident in
India to Amira India. Under current Indian regulations, transfers of shares between non-residents and residents are permitted (subject to certain exceptions) if
they comply with, among other things, the pricing guidelines and reporting requirements specified by the Reserve Bank of India. If the transfer of shares is
not in compliance with such pricing guidelines or reporting requirements, or falls under any of the exceptions referred to above, then the prior approval of the
Reserve Bank of India will be required. We may not be able to obtain any required approval from the Reserve Bank of India or any other Indian regulatory
authority on any particular terms or at all.
Further, under its consolidated foreign direct investment policy, the Government of India has set out additional requirements for foreign investments
in India, including requirements with respect to downstream investments by Indian companies owned and controlled by non-resident entities. Amira
Mauritius, which is considered a non-resident entity under applicable Indian laws, directly holds a majority of Amira India’s equity shares. Accordingly, any
downstream investment by Amira India into another Indian company will have to comply with conditions applicable to such Indian entity, in accordance
with the consolidated foreign direct investment policy. While we believe that these regulations will not have any material impact on our operations in India,
these requirements, which currently include minimum valuations for Indian company shares and restrictions on sources of funding for such investments, may
restrict our ability to make further equity investments in India, including through Amira Mauritius and Amira India.
Terrorist acts and other acts of violence involving India or other neighboring countries could significantly harm our operations directly, or may
result in a more general loss of customer confidence and reduced investment in these countries that reduces the demand for our products.
Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war involving India or other neighboring countries may significantly harm the Indian markets and the
worldwide financial markets. The occurrence of any of these events may result in a loss of business confidence, which could potentially lead to economic
recession and generally cause significant harm to our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, any deterioration in international
relations may result in investor concern regarding regional stability, which could decrease the price of our ordinary shares.
12
South Asia has also experienced instances of civil unrest and hostilities among neighboring countries from time to time. There have also been
incidents in and near India such as terrorist attacks in Mumbai, Delhi and on the Indian Parliament, troop mobilizations along the India and Pakistan border
and an aggravated geopolitical situation in the region. Such military activity or terrorist attacks in the future could significantly harm the Indian economy by
disrupting communications and making travel more difficult. Resulting political tensions could create a greater perception that investments in Indian
companies involve a high degree of risk. Furthermore, if India were to become engaged in armed hostilities, particularly hostilities that were protracted or
involved the threat or use of nuclear weapons, we might not be able to continue our operations. Our insurance policies for a substantial part of our business
do not cover terrorist attacks or business interruptions from terrorist attacks or for other reasons.
Risks Related to Our Operations
Any decline in the market price of Basmati rice while held by us for aging may harm our results of operations and financial condition.
The Basmati rice industry is cyclical and is dependent on the results of the Basmati paddy harvest, which occurs for only seven months in the year
(September to March). We purchase Basmati paddy from farmers through government regulated agricultural produce markets or through licensed
procurement agents and then process it throughout the year. A unique feature of Basmati rice is that its quality is perceived to improve with age. Our Basmati
rice is sold at least 10 to 12 months after harvesting and generally commands a price premium. As a result, we typically allow our Basmati paddy to age from
six to eight months and our processed Basmati rice to age for an additional four to six months before we sell it. If there is any fall in the price of Basmati rice
during the time we hold it for aging, we may not be able to recover, or generate the same margins from, our investment in Basmati paddy or processed rice,
which may harm our results of operations and financial condition.
The price we charge for our Basmati rice depends largely on the prevailing wholesale market price; lower market prices may harm our results of
operations and financial condition.
Numerous factors affect the wholesale price of Basmati rice, including weather, government policies such as the reintroduction of minimum support
prices and minimum export prices, changes in prices of other staples, seasonal cycles, pest and disease problems and balance of demand and supply.
Furthermore, the highly fragmented nature of the Basmati rice industry in India limits the pricing power of individual companies. Any prolonged decrease in
Basmati rice prices could harm our results of operations and financial condition. Currently, we are not able to hedge against such price risks since Basmati
rice futures do not actively trade on any commodities exchange.
Due to the seasonality of our business, our operating results may vary quarter to quarter.
Our revenue is typically higher from October through March than from April through September. We procure most of our Basmati paddy between
September and March. Our business requires a significant amount of working capital primarily due to the fact that a significant amount of time passes
between when we purchase Basmati paddy and sell finished Basmati rice. Accordingly, we maintain substantial levels of working capital indebtedness that is
secured by our inventory. Therefore, our revenues and cash flows are affected by seasonal cyclicality.
We rely on agents to procure suf icient Basmati paddy of the proper quality for our processing requirements.
We are largely dependent on agents known as “pucca artiyas” who are authorized to make purchases of Basmati paddy (or rough, unprocessed
Basmati rice) in the organized and government-regulated agricultural produce markets in India known as “mandis.” These agents may not be able to procure
the quantities required for our business while maintaining our quality standards. We have adopted standard operating procedures with respect to purchases,
which include training and monitoring the performance of these agents, but we have no direct control over their purchasing activities. Any failure by these
agents to deliver the right quantities or quality of Basmati paddy at the right price could harm our results of operations and financial condition. In addition,
we typically enter into oral, non-binding agreements with these agents for the services they provide, and we may not be able to maintain these arrangements
on substantially the same terms, if at all, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.
In addition, despite the recent trend of consolidation in the Indian market for Basmati rice, the Basmati paddy market remains relatively fragmented
and includes organized and unorganized suppliers such as small family owned farms. We expect this fragmentation to continue for the foreseeable future.
These smaller companies may not be able to maintain a required flow of Basmati paddy to us should our volume requirements rapidly increase. If we are
unable to buy from these agents sufficient Basmati paddy which meets our quality requirements, we may not be able to process and sell as much finished rice
as we planned or promised to our customers, which could harm our reputation with these customers, as well as our business and results of operations.
13
Adverse weather, disease, pests and over farming may reduce the general availability of paddy, which may af ect our operations and growth plans.
Although Basmati rice is not entirely dependent upon a successful monsoon, the consistent failure of monsoons in India, extreme flooding, adverse
weather or other natural calamities may harm the production of Basmati and other paddy. In addition paddy farmers could shift their production to other
crops, resulting in a drop in paddy production. Such adverse weather and supply conditions may occur at any time and create volatility for our business and
results of operations. Crop diseases and pest infestations may also affect production; such events may vary in severity, depending on the stage of production
at the time of infection or infestation, the type of treatment applied and climatic conditions. Major diseases and pests such as leaf blight, sheath blight, smut,
blast, rice tango virus and stern borer affect our suppliers’ production. The costs to control these diseases and other infestations vary depending on the
severity of the damage and the extent of the plantings affected. The available technologies to control such diseases and infestations may not continue to be
effective. Furthermore, the continued use of intensive irrigated rice-based cropping systems in producing paddy may cause deterioration of soil health and
productivity. Any of these risks can affect the availability and current and future cost of paddy. The future growth of our business depends upon our ability to
procure quality paddy on a timely basis. We may not be able to procure all of our paddy requirements, and our failure to do so would harm our business,
results of operations and financial condition.
We currently rely on our one processing and packaging facility and a limited number of third party processing facilities. An interruption in
operations at our facility or in such third party processing facilities could inhibit our ability to fill orders for our products.
We operate a single processing and packaging facility in Gurgaon, near New Delhi, India. Any significant disruption at this facility for any reason,
including regulatory requirements, the loss of certifications or approvals, technical difficulties, labor disputes, war or civil disorder, power interruptions or
other infrastructure failures, fires, earthquakes, hurricanes or other force of nature, could disrupt our ability to supply our products and significantly harm our
business, results of operations and financial performance. We also heavily depend upon a limited number of third party processing facilities to produce
products responsible for substantial portions of our revenue, some of which facilities are owned by our competitors. These facilities are subject to their own
unique operational and financial risks, which are out of our control. We have no production agreements with these third party processing facilities, and can
provide no assurance that we will be able to use their processing capacity to produce our products. If any of these processors choose not to provide us
processing services, we may need to find and enter into arrangements with one or more replacement processors. Finding alternate processing facilities could
involve significant delays and other costs and these sources may not be available to us on reasonable terms or at all. Any disruption of processing or
packaging could delay delivery of our products, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.
We generally do not enter into long-term or exclusive supply contracts with our Basmati rice and other customers or with our distributors. Failure
to receive timely repeat orders from our customers or our distributors may harm our business.
We generally do not enter into long-term supply contracts with most of our customers. Our customers instead submit purchase orders from time to
time, which are short-term commitments for specific quantities of Basmati rice and other products at an agreed price. In addition, we typically complete the
paddy procurement process two to six months before we receive purchase orders from customers, forcing us to rely primarily on historical trends, other market
indicators and management estimates to predict demand, which is particularly difficult as we expand into new markets. We usually expand our procurement
operations based on a trend of historical growth and delivery, but we may not receive purchase orders commensurate with our expanded operations on
substantially the same terms, or at all, and we may not get expected repeat orders from our customers. As a result, we are vulnerable to volatility in market
demand, which could harm our business and results of operations.
In addition, we typically do not enter into long-term or exclusive arrangements with our distributors. If we are not able to supply our distributors the
quantities of our products that we have historically supplied them, they may place orders with and even move some or all of their business permanently to our
competitors. In addition, our distributors could change their business practices or seek to modify the terms under which we usually do business with them,
including the amount and timing of their payments to us. Further, we rely upon our distributors to assess the demand for our products in their market based on
their interactions with retailers and consumers. If our distributors do not accurately predict the demand for our products, delay in placing orders with us, fail
to market our products successfully or choose to market the products of our competitors instead, such actions could harm our business growth and prospects,
financial condition and results of operations. Further, our inability to maintain our existing distributors or to expand our distribution network in line with our
growth strategy could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.
14
We derived 29.9% of our total revenue from our top five customers and distributors in fiscal 2015; the loss of the revenue from any such customer
would harm our results of operations and financial condition.
Our top five customers and distributors accounted for 29.9%, 34.3% and 33.4% of our total revenue for fiscal 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. We
anticipate that this concentration of sales among customers may continue in the future. Although we believe we have strong relationships with certain of our
key customers, we do not have any long-term supply contracts with these customers and our inability to maintain or further develop our relationships with
our key customers and distributors would harm our results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, changes in the strategies of our largest customers,
including a reduction in the number of brands they carry or a shift to competitors’ products, may harm our sales.
Natural or man–made calamities and health epidemics could have a negative impact on the Indian economy and cause our business to suf er.
A substantial portion of our operations, employees and customers are located in India, which has historically experienced natural or man-made
calamities such as earthquakes, tsunamis, floods, climate change and drought. In December 2004, Southeast Asia, including both the eastern and western
coasts of India, experienced a massive tsunami, and, in October 2005, the State of Jammu and Kashmir experienced an earthquake, both of which events
caused significant loss of life and property damage. The extent and severity of these natural or man-made disasters determines their impact on the Indian
economy. Natural or man-made disasters may occur in the future and may have an adverse effect on our business.
In recent years, certain regions of the world, including India and several other countries in which we operate, have experienced outbreaks of swine
flu caused by the H1N1 virus. Any future outbreak of swine flu or other health epidemics may restrict the level of business activity in affected areas which
could adversely affect our business.
Production of paddy is subject to risks related to potential climate change such as global warming.
Agriculture is extremely vulnerable to climate change, including large-scale changes such as global warming. Global warming is projected to have a
significant impact on conditions affecting agriculture, including temperature, carbon dioxide concentration, precipitation and the interaction of these
elements. Higher temperatures may eventually reduce yields of desirable crops while encouraging weed and pest proliferation. Increased atmospheric carbon
dioxide concentration may lead to a decrease in global crop production. Changes in precipitation patterns increase the likelihood of short-run crop failures
and long-run production declines. While crop production in the temperate zones may reap some benefit from climate change, crop production in the tropical
and subtropical zones appears more vulnerable to the potential effects of global warming. Even a high degree of farm-level adaptation by the suppliers of our
paddy may not entirely mitigate such negative effects. All of our paddy is grown in tropical and subtropical areas. As a result, all of our suppliers’ production
is particularly susceptible to climate change in these areas. Rapid and severe climate change may decrease our suppliers’ crop production, which may
significantly harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.
Improper storage, processing and handling of our paddy or rice could damage our inventories and, as a result, harm our business and results of
operations.
We typically store paddy in covered warehouses or in bags placed on open-air, raised plinths (or platforms) and processed rice in covered
warehouses. In the event our paddy is not appropriately stored, handled and processed, spoilage may reduce the quality of the paddy and the resulting
processed rice. Even if paddy is appropriately stored on open-air plinths, above-average rains may still harm the quality and value of paddy stored in this
manner. In addition, the occurrence of any mistakes or leakage in the rice storage process may harm the yield, quality and value of our rice, leading to lower
revenue.
The development of our new processing facility is subject to various risks; we may not be able to complete the facility as planned or on schedule.
As part of our growth strategy, which we outlined at the time of our IPO, we intend to develop a new processing facility in India. We estimate the
cost to be approximately $64 million in total and we have retained cash from our IPO on our balance sheet to help fund a portion of this spending. Our plans
remain subject to certain potential problems and uncertainties, including increased costs of equipment or manpower, completion delays due to the need to
find an appropriate location for the facility at acceptable costs, a lack of required equipment, financing permits or approvals or other factors, defects in design
or construction, changes in laws and regulations or other governmental action, cost overruns, accidents, natural calamities and other factors, many of which
may be beyond our control. Any delays in completing this facility could result in our loss or delayed receipt of revenue, as well as increases in financing and
construction costs. Our proposed expansion will also require significant time and resources from our management team. Any failure by us to meet revenue or
income targets may require us to reschedule or reconsider our development plans. If these plans do not proceed as planned, or on schedule, our business,
results of operations and financial condition may be harmed. Even if completed, our new processing facility may not yield the expected or desired benefits in
terms of process and cost efficiencies, or an expansion in our business. We will also incur additional fixed costs from the new facility, and may not be able to
timely reduce these or other fixed costs in response to a decline in revenue, which would harm our results of operations and profitability.
15
Water or power shortage or other utility supply issues in India could disrupt our processing and harm our business, results of operations and
financial condition.
Our processing facility and our storage and distribution facilities require a continual supply of utilities such as water and electricity. Our processing
facility and most of our storage and distribution facilities are located in India, and the Indian authorities may ration the supply of utilities. Interruptions of
water or electricity supply could result in temporary shutdowns of our storage, processing, packaging and distribution facilities. Any major suspension or
termination of water or electricity or other unexpected service interruptions could significantly harm our business, results of operations and financial
condition.
We rely upon independent third party transportation providers for substantially all shipments through our supply chain and are subject to
increased shipping costs as well as the potential inability of our third party transportation providers to deliver on a timely basis.
We currently rely upon a network of independent third party transportation providers for substantially all of our shipments of paddy and rice to
storage, processing, packaging and distribution facilities, as well as from distribution facilities to market. These transportations are primarily made by trucks
within the same country and by ship between countries. Our use of these delivery services for our shipments subjects us to many risks, including increases in
fuel prices, which would increase our shipping costs, and employee strikes and inclement weather, which may impact our shippers’ ability to provide delivery
services that adequately meet our shipping needs. If we change the shipping companies we use, we could face logistical difficulties that could delay
deliveries, and we would incur costs and expend resources in connection with such change. Moreover, we may not be able to obtain terms as favorable as
those received from our current independent third party transportation providers, which in turn would increase our costs.
Employee shortages and rising employee costs may harm our business and increase our operation costs.
As of March 31, 2015, we employed 445 persons (including 47 employees in locations outside of India) to perform a variety of functions in our
daily operations. Lower labor costs in India provide us with a cost advantage. However, we have observed an overall tightening of the employee market and
an emerging trend of shortage of labor supply. Failure to obtain stable and dedicated employee support may cause disruption to our business that harms our
operations. Furthermore, employee costs have increased in India in recent years and may continue to increase in the near future. To remain competitive, we
may need to increase the salaries of our employees to attract and retain them. Any increase in employee costs may harm our results of operations and financial
condition.
16
Stringent labor laws may harm our ability to have flexible human resource policies; labor union problems could negatively af ect our processing
capacity and overall profitability.
India has stringent labor legislation that protects the interests of workers, including legislation that sets forth detailed procedures for dispute
resolution and employee removal and imposes financial obligations on employers upon employee layoffs. These laws may restrict our ability to have human
resource policies that would allow us to react swiftly to the needs of our business, discharge employees or downsize our operations. We may also experience
labor unrest in the future, which may delay or disrupt our operations. If such delays or disruptions occur or continue for a prolonged period of time, our
processing capacity and overall profitability could be negatively affected. For instance, in May 2005, certain workers at our processing facility declared a
strike to demand higher wages and enhanced labor policies, and to protest certain workforce reductions. The strike was called off in 2006, but certain of such
workers’ claims are currently pending adjudication before the Gurgaon Labour Court and the outcome of such adjudication may not be favorable to us. We
also depend on third party contract labor. It is possible under Indian law that, despite our having made appropriate payment to the contractors, we may be
held liable for wage payments to these laborers if their contractors default on payments to the laborers. Liability for any non-payment by contractors may
harm our business and results of our operations. In addition, an industrial court or tribunal in India could direct us to absorb our contract workers as
permanent employees and the government of a state in India may prohibit the employment of contract labor. If we are required to employ contract workers on
the same terms as our permanent employees, this may increase our costs.
Loss of key personnel or our inability to attract and retain additional key personnel could impair our ability to execute our growth strategy, harm
our product development ef ort and delay our launch of new products.
Our business involves operations spanning a variety of disciplines and demanding a management team and employee workforce that is
knowledgeable in many areas necessary for our operations. While we have been successful in attracting experienced, skilled professionals, the loss of any key
member of our management team, or operational or product development employees, or the failure to attract and retain additional such employees, could
slow the execution of our business strategy, including expansion into new target markets, and our development and commercialization of new products. If we
are not able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, the resulting staffing constraints will harm our ability to
expand, satisfy customer demands for our products and develop new products. Competition for such personnel from numerous companies may limit our
ability to attract and retain them on acceptable terms, or at all, and we have no “key person” insurance to protect us from any losses of personnel.
Our operations are highly regulated in the areas of food safety and protection of human health and we may be subject to the risk of incurring
compliance costs as well as the risk of potential claims and regulatory actions.
Our operations are subject to a broad range of foreign, national, provincial and local health and safety laws and regulations, including laws and
regulations governing the use and disposal of pesticides and other chemicals. These regulations directly affect our day-to-day operations, and violations of
these laws and regulations can result in substantial fines or penalties, which may significantly harm our business, results of operations and financial
condition. For example, there has been a recent focus in the U.S. on the potential levels of arsenic in rice and the Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) has
indicated that it will evaluate strategies designed to limit arsenic exposure from rice and rice products. In December 2013, FDA issued an import alert
enabling it to detain shipments of Indian Basmati rice for compulsory testing for residue of certain pesticides. While Amira is currently exempted from the
import alert, FDA’s interest in Indian Basmati rice could impact our business. While the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), which establishes
the Maximum Residue Limit (“MRL”) for pesticide residue allowed in food imported into the U.S., has yet to set an MRL for most of the pesticides used by
Indian farmers to protect Basmati rice from pests, it has recently set an import tolerance for tricyclazole in Indian Rice at 3.0 parts per million (“PPM”). For
other pesticides without an MRL, however, if even 0.01 PPM are detected in any rice shipments into the U.S. they will be rejected by FDA. FDA’s
enforcement activities have not, to date, materially affected our business or the results of our operations because our sales of Basmati rice in the United States
have been limited, representing less than 2% in fiscal 2015. However, FDA’s regulatory activities may limit our growth in the U.S. Until FDA’s regulation of
Basmati rice is resolved, there can be no assurance as to what additional measures, if any, may be taken by FDA or any other regulatory body and the impact
of any such measures. To stay compliant with all of the laws and regulations that apply to our operations and products, we may be required in the future to
modify our operations or make capital improvements. Our products may be subject to extensive examinations by governmental authorities before they are
allowed to enter certain regulated markets, which may delay the processing or sale of our products or require us to take other actions, including product
recalls, if we or the regulators believe any such product presents a potential risk. If we are granted access to any such regulated market, maintaining regulatory
compliance there may be expensive and time consuming, and if approvals are later withdrawn for any reason, we may be required to abruptly stop marketing
certain of our products there, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we may in the future become subject
to lawsuits alleging that our operations and products cause damage to human health.
17
We rely on certifications by industry standards-setting bodies; loss of a certification could reduce our sales.
Certifications are not compulsory in the rice industry. However, some of our customers require us to have one or more internationally recognized
certification. We have received an ISO 9001:2008 quality system certification and an ISO 22000:2005 food safety management certification for our rice
processing facility, and an SQF Certificate. In addition, we have received certifications from BRC Global Standards and the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration, as well as being Kosher certified, and have received a certificate of approval for the export of Basmati rice by the Export Inspection Council
of India. We incur significant costs and expenses, including any necessary upgrades to our manufacturing facilities, associated with maintaining these
certifications. If we fail to maintain any of our certifications, our business may be harmed because our customers that require them may stop purchasing some
or all of our products.
We also have organic certifications for our rice products from Ecocert India Private Limited, an international certification body that certifies our
compliance with the requirements of the EU, Regulations and as per the USDA National Organic Program’s Organic Standards.
Our historical and future international sales to certain non-U.S. customers, including independent resellers, expose us to special risks associated
with operating in particular countries. If we are not in compliance with applicable legal requirements, we may be subject to civil or criminal
penalties and other remedial measures.
The U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) administers certain laws and regulations, or U.S. Economic
Sanctions Laws, that restrict U.S. persons and, in some instances, non-U.S. persons like us, in conducting activities, transacting business with or making
investments in certain countries, governments, entities and individuals subject to U.S. economic sanctions, or sanctions targets. We have not used, and will
not use, any proceeds, directly or indirectly, from our IPO to fund any activities or business with any sanctions target. In compliance with Indian laws, Amira
India and our other non-U.S. subsidiaries have sold rice to independent non-U.S. customers in international markets that resell products to their own
customers, which customers may have included private customers in Iran, Syria and other countries in the region. Iran and Syria are currently sanctions
targets. In fiscal year 2015 and 2014, sales to Iran and Syria were less than 1% of our total revenue. Currently, direct and indirect sales of rice into Iran are
allowed under an OFAC general license issued in October 2011. Sales of rice into Syria are not restricted by OFAC or by the U.S. Department of Commerce,
Bureau of Industry and Security, which primarily administers U.S. restrictions on exports or re-exports to Syria. Therefore, we believe we are in compliance
with U.S. Economic Sanctions Laws. We believe that we conducted our historical activities in compliance with applicable U.S. Economic Sanctions Laws in
all material respects; however, it is possible that U.S. authorities could view certain of our past transactions to have violated U.S. Economic Sanctions Laws. If
our activities are found to violate applicable sanctions or other trade controls, we may be subject to potential fines or other sanctions. For example, a
violation of OFAC’s Iran regulations could currently result in a civil monetary penalty of up to the greater of $250,000 or twice the value of the transaction
involved. We intend to conduct our business activities in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. We will continue to monitor developments in
countries that are the subject or target of any of these laws or regulations so that our sales to Sanction Targets will be conducted in compliance with all
applicable law.
We are also subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), which prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from bribing foreign
officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment, and other laws concerning our international operations.
Legislation in other jurisdictions contains similar prohibitions, although varying in both scope and jurisdiction. Although our U.S. subsidiary only transacts
business in the U.S., we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, and, in certain circumstances,
strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices, which may negatively impact our results of operations.
We have adopted and are in the process of continuous improvement and strengthening of the formal controls and procedures to ensure that we are in
compliance with OFAC, FCPA and similar laws, regulations and sanctions. The implementation of such controls and procedures could result in the discovery
of issues or violations with respect to the foregoing by us or our employees, independent contractors, subcontractors or agents of which we were previously
unaware. Any violations of these laws, regulations and procedures by our employees, independent contractors, subcontractors and agents could expose us to
administrative, civil or criminal penalties, fines or restrictions on export activities (including other U.S. and Indian laws and regulations as well as foreign
laws). A violation of these laws and regulations, or even an alleged violation, could harm our reputation and cause some of our U.S. investors to sell their
interests in our company to be consistent with their internal investment policies or to avoid reputational damage, and some U.S. institutional investors might
forego the purchase of our ordinary shares, all of which may negatively impact the trading prices of our ordinary shares.
18
We may incur significant costs to comply with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations; failure to comply could expose us to
significant liabilities.
We are subject to a variety of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in India and in the other locations in which we operate.
Although we have implemented procedures to comply with these laws and regulations, we cannot be sure that our measures are compliant or capable of
eliminating the risk of injury or contamination from the use, generation, manufacture, or disposal of our products. In the event of contamination or injury, we
could be held liable for any resulting damages, and any liability could exceed our insurance coverage. Violations of environmental, health and safety laws
may occur as a result of human error, accident, equipment failure or other causes. Environmental proceedings had been initiated against Amira India before
the District Court, Gurgaon, India, alleging that Amira India’s failure to make proper arrangements for the disposal of ash and straw by products of its rice
processing operations had caused air and noise pollution. We have taken corrective measures and. since then we have obtained renewal approvals under the
Indian Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 and the Indian Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974, and the current approvals
are valid until March, 31, 2016. However, similar or other allegations or legal proceedings may be initiated against us in the future relating to noncompliance with applicable environmental laws.
Compliance with applicable environmental health and safety laws and regulations may be expensive, and the failure to comply could result in the
imposition of fines, regulatory oversight costs, third party property damage, product liability and personal injury claims, investigation and remediation costs,
the suspension of production, or a cessation of operations, and our liability may exceed our total assets. We expect to encounter similar laws and regulations
in most if not all of the countries in which we may seek to establish production capabilities or operate and the scope and nature of these laws and regulations
will likely be different from country to country. Environmental, health and safety laws could become more stringent over time, requiring us to change our
operations or incur greater compliance or capital costs, or could provide for increased penalties for violations, all of which could impair our research,
development or production efforts and harm our business. The costs of complying with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and any claims
concerning noncompliance, or liability arising thereunder, could significantly harm our results of operations or financial condition.
We may become subject to lawsuits or indemnity claims, including those related to class action suits, product contamination and product liability,
which could harm our business and results of operations.
From time to time, we may be named as a defendant in lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings. These actions may seek, among other things,
compensation for alleged personal injury, workers’ compensation, employment discrimination, breach of contract, infringement of the intellectual property
rights of others, or civil penalties and other losses of injunctive or declaratory relief. In the event that such actions or indemnities are ultimately resolved
unfavorably for amounts exceeding our accrued liability, or are otherwise significant, the outcome could harm our reputation, business and results of
operations. In addition, payments of significant amounts, even if reserved, could harm our liquidity.
In addition, the distribution and sale of our products involve an inherent risk of product liability claims and product recalls if our products become
adulterated or misbranded, as well as any associated adverse publicity. Our products may contain undetected impurities or toxins that are not discovered until
after the products have been consumed by customers. For instance, our products are subject to tampering and to contamination risks, such as mold, bacteria,
insects and other pests. This could result in claims from our customers or others, or in a significant product recall, which could damage our business and
reputation and involve significant costs to correct. In addition, these kinds of events could result in cancellation of contracts by our customers or the recall of
products. We may also be sued for defects resulting from errors of our commercial partners or unrelated third parties, and any product liability claim brought
against us, regardless of its merit, or product recall could result in material expense, divert management’s attention, and harm our business, reputation and
consumer confidence in our products.
Our insurance policies may not protect us against all potential losses, which could harm our business and results of operations.
Operating our business involves many risks, which, if not adequately insured, could harm our business and results of operations.
We believe that the extent of our insurance coverage is consistent with industry practice. Our insurance policies include coverage for risks relating
to personal accident, burglary, medical payments, product liability and marine cargo, including transit cover covering certain employees, office premises and
consignments of rice. In addition, the inventory stored at our processing facility and warehouses is insured against fire and other perils such as earthquake,
burglary and floods, and we have fire and allied perils insurance coverage for business interruptions at our milling facility. However, any claim under the
insurance policies maintained by us may be subject to certain exceptions, may not be honored fully, in part, in a timely manner or at all, and we may not have
purchased sufficient insurance to cover all losses that we may incur. For instance, a majority of our inventory consists of paddy and rice. In the event our
inventory is not appropriately stored or is affected by fires or natural disasters such as floods, storms or earthquakes, our inventory may be damaged or
destroyed, which would harm our results of operations. In addition, if we were to incur substantial liabilities or if our business operations were interrupted for
a substantial period of time, we could incur costs and suffer losses. Our insurance policies may not cover such inventory and business interruption losses.
Additionally, in the future, insurance coverage may not be available to us at commercially acceptable premiums, or at all.
19
Risks Related to Our Public Company Status
For as long as we are an “emerging growth company,” we are not required to comply with certain reporting requirements that apply to other
public companies.
We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the JOBS Act, enacted on April 5, 2012. For as long as we continue to be an emerging growth
company, we may choose to take advantage of certain exemptions from reporting requirements applicable to other public companies that are not emerging
growth companies. These include: (1) not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”), (2) not being required to comply with any new requirements adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(the “PCAOB”), requiring mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor’s report in which the auditor would be required to provide additional
information about the audit and the financial statements of the issuer, (3) not being required to comply with any new audit rules adopted by the PCAOB after
April 5, 2012 unless the Securities and Exchange Commission determines otherwise, and (4) not being required to provide certain disclosure regarding
executive compensation required of larger public companies. We cannot predict if investors will find our ordinary shares less attractive if we choose to rely
on these exemptions. If some investors find our ordinary shares less attractive as a result of any choices to reduce future disclosure, there may be a less active
trading market for our ordinary shares and our share price may be more volatile. Further, as a result of these scaled regulatory requirements, our disclosure
may be more limited than that of other public companies and investors in our securities may not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of such
companies.
We are a foreign private issuer and, as a result, we are not subject to U.S. proxy rules and are subject to the Exchange Act reporting obligations
that, to some extent, are more lenient and less frequent than those of a U.S. issuer.
Because we qualify and report as a foreign private issuer under the Exchange Act, we are exempt from certain provisions of the Exchange Act that
are applicable to U.S. public companies, including (i) the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations in
respect of a security registered under the Exchange Act, (ii) the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership
and trading activities and liability for insiders who profit from trades made in a short period of time, and (iii) the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the
filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q containing unaudited financial and other specified information, or
current reports on Form 8-K, upon the occurrence of specified significant events. We intend to furnish quarterly reports to the Securities and Exchange
Commission on Form 6-K for so long as we are subject to the reporting requirements of Section 13(g) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, although the information
we furnish may not be the same as the information that is required in quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for U.S. domestic issuers. In addition, while U.S.
domestic issuers that are not large accelerated filers or accelerated filers are required to file their annual reports on Form 10-K within 90 days after the end of
each fiscal year, for the fiscal years ending on or after December 15, 2011, foreign private issuers are not required to file their annual report on Form 20-F until
four months after the end of each fiscal year. Foreign private issuers are also exempt from Regulation Fair Disclosure, aimed at preventing issuers from
making selective disclosures of material information. Although we intend to make interim reports available to our shareholders in a timely manner, investors
in our securities may not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are not foreign private issuers.
As a foreign private issuer and a controlled company, we are permitted to take advantage of certain exemptions to the corporate governance
requirements of the New York Stock Exchange; this may af ord less protection to holders of our ordinary shares.
Our ordinary shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange. As a foreign private issuer, we may elect to follow certain home country (BVI)
corporate governance practices in lieu of certain New York Stock Exchange requirements, including the requirements that (1) a majority of the board of
directors consist of independent directors, (2) a nominating and corporate governance committee be established that is composed entirely of independent
directors and has a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities, (3) a compensation committee be established that is composed
entirely of independent directors and has a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities, and (4) an annual performance evaluation
of the nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees be undertaken. A foreign private issuer must disclose in its annual reports filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission each significant New York Stock Exchange requirement with which it does not comply followed by a
description of its applicable home country practice.
20
In addition, we are a controlled company, or a company of which more than 50% of the voting power for the election of directors is held by an
individual, a group or another company. As a controlled company, we are exempt from complying with certain corporate governance requirements of the New
York Stock Exchange. A foreign private issuer is required to disclose in its annual report that it is a controlled company and the basis for that determination.
As a company incorporated in the BVI and listed on the New York Stock Exchange, we are meeting the New York Stock Exchange’s requirements
without making use of the above-mentioned exemptions, unless otherwise disclosed. However, in the future we may rely on certain exemptions. Such
practices may afford less protection to holders of our ordinary shares.
If we are unable to establish appropriate internal financial reporting controls and procedures, it could cause us to fail to meet our reporting
obligations, result in the restatement of our financial statements, harm our operating results, subject us to regulatory scrutiny and sanction, cause
investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative ef ect on the market price of our ordinary shares.
Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. We maintain a system of internal
control over financial reporting, which is defined as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, our principal executive officer and principal financial
officer, and effected by our board of directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurances regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with IFRS.
As a public company, we have significant additional requirements for enhanced financial reporting and internal controls. We are required to
document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual
management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm
will be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting beginning with our annual report on Form 20-F for the year
ending March 31, 2018, or, if earlier, on our annual report on Form 20-F following the date on which we cease to qualify as an emerging growth company or
become an accelerated filer or large accelerated filer. The process of designing and implementing effective internal controls is a continuous effort that
requires us to anticipate and react to changes in our business and the economic and regulatory environments and to expend significant resources to maintain
a system of internal controls that is adequate to satisfy our reporting obligations as a public company.
We cannot assure you that we will, in the future, identify areas requiring improvement in our internal control over financial reporting. We cannot
assure you that the measures we will take to remediate any areas in need of improvement will be successful or that we will implement and maintain adequate
controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future as we continue our growth. If we are unable to establish appropriate internal financial
reporting controls and procedures, it could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, result in the restatement of our financial statements, harm our
operating results, subject us to regulatory scrutiny and sanction, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative
effect on the market price of our ordinary shares.
Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may be time-consuming and costly
It may be time-consuming, difficult and costly for us to develop and implement the internal controls and reporting procedures required by the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We may need to hire additional financial reporting, internal controls and other finance staff or consultants to develop and implement
appropriate internal controls and reporting procedures. If we are unable to comply with the internal controls requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we may
not be able to obtain the independent auditor certifications that the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will require us to obtain in connection with the first annual report we
publicly file after the earlier of the fifth anniversary of our IPO or our determination that we no longer qualify as an “emerging growth company” under the
JOBS Act.
We have incurred and will continue to incur increased costs as a result of being a public company.
As a public company, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a
private company, particularly after we no longer qualify as an “emerging growth company.” In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as new rules
subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission, has required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. These
rules and regulations have increased our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs and make certain corporate activities more time-consuming and
costly. In addition, we have incurred or may incur in future additional costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. We continue to
evaluate and monitor developments with respect to these new rules, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the
timing of such costs.