Any investment in our company will be subject to risks inherent to our business. Before making an
investment decision, investors should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of
the other information included in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the
only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of or focused
on or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. This report is
qualified in its entirety by these risk factors.
Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, consolidated financial
condition, results of operations or liquidity. In that case, holders of our securities may lose all or part
of their investment.
Risks Specific to Our Company
The packaged food industry is highly competitive.
The packaged food industry is highly competitive. Numerous brands and products, including
private label products, compete for shelf space and sales, with competition based primarily on product
quality, convenience, price, trade promotion, brand recognition and loyalty, customer service, effective
consumer advertising and promotional activities and the ability to identify and satisfy emerging
consumer preferences. We compete with a significant number of companies of varying sizes, including
divisions or subsidiaries of larger companies. Many of these competitors have multiple product lines,
substantially greater financial and other resources available to them and may have lower fixed costs
and/or are substantially less leveraged than our company. If we are unable to continue to compete
successfully with these companies or if competitive pressures or other factors cause our products to lose
market share or result in significant price erosion, our business, consolidated financial condition, results
of operations or liquidity could be materially and adversely affected.
We may be unable to maintain our profitability in the face of a consolidating retail environment.
Our largest customer, Wal-Mart, accounted for 19.7% of our fiscal 2012 net sales, and our ten
largest customers together accounted for approximately 50.7% of our fiscal 2012 net sales. As the retail
grocery trade continues to consolidate and our retail customers grow larger and become more
sophisticated, our retail customers may demand lower pricing and increased promotional programs.
Further, these customers are reducing their inventories and increasing their emphasis on products that
hold either the number one or number two market position and private label products. If we fail to use
our sales and marketing expertise to maintain our category leadership positions to respond to these
trends, or if we lower our prices or increase promotional support of our products and are unable to
increase the volume of our products sold, our profitability and financial condition may be adversely
affected.
We are vulnerable to decreases in the supply and increases in the price of raw materials and labor,
manufacturing, distribution and other costs, and we may not be able to offset increasing costs by increasing
prices to our customers.
We purchase agricultural products, meat, poultry, other raw materials, ingredients and packaging
materials from growers, commodity processors, other food companies and packaging manufacturers.
Raw materials, ingredients and packaging materials are subject to increases in price attributable to a
number of factors, including changes in crop size, federal and state agricultural programs, export
demand, currency exchange rates, energy and fuel costs, weather conditions during the growing and
harvesting seasons, insects, plant diseases and fungi, and glass, metal and plastic prices. Fluctuations in
commodity prices can lead to retail price volatility and intensive price competition, and can influence
consumer and trade buying patterns. The cost of labor, manufacturing, energy, fuel, packaging materials
and other costs related to the production and distribution of our products can from time to time
increase significantly and unexpectedly. We attempt to manage these risks by entering into short-term
supply contracts and advance commodities purchase agreements from time to time, by implementing
cost saving measures and by raising sales prices. During the past three years, our cost saving measures
and sales price increases offset increases to our raw material, ingredient and packaging costs. To the
extent we are unable to offset present and future cost increases, our operating results will be negatively
impacted.
We may be unable to offset any reduction in net sales in our mature food product categories through an
increase in trade spending for these categories or an increase in net sales in other categories.
Most of our food product categories are mature and certain categories have experienced declining
consumption rates from time to time. If consumption rates and sales in our mature food product
categories decline, our revenue and operating income may be adversely affected, and we may not be
able to offset this decrease in business with increased trade spending or an increase in sales or
profitability of other products and product categories.
We may have difficulties integrating future acquisitions or identifying new acquisitions.
Part of our strategy is to grow through acquisition and we intend to pursue additional acquisitions
of food and household product lines and businesses. However, we may be unable to identify and
consummate additional acquisitions or may be unable to successfully integrate and manage the product
lines or businesses that we have recently acquired or may acquire in the future. In addition, we may be
unable to achieve a substantial portion of any anticipated cost savings from future acquisitions or other
anticipated benefits in the timeframe we anticipate, or at all. Moreover, any acquired product lines or
businesses may require a greater than anticipated amount of trade, promotional and capital spending.
Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the operations,
technologies, services and products of the acquired companies, personnel turnover and the diversion of
management’s attention from other business concerns. Any inability by us to integrate and manage any
product lines or businesses that we have recently acquired or may acquire in the future in a timely and
efficient manner, any inability to achieve a substantial portion of any anticipated cost savings or other
anticipated benefits from these acquisitions in the time frame we anticipate or any unanticipated
required increases in trade, promotional or capital spending could adversely affect our business,
consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Moreover, future acquisitions by us
could result in our incurring substantial additional indebtedness, being exposed to contingent liabilities
or incurring the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, all of which could adversely affect
our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.
We have substantial indebtedness, which could restrict our ability to pay dividends and impact our financing
options and liquidity position.
At December 29, 2012, we had total long-term indebtedness of $641.2 million (before debt
discount), including $392.7 million principal amount of senior secured indebtedness and $248.5 million
principal amount of senior unsecured indebtedness. Our ability to pay dividends is subject to
contractual restrictions contained in the instruments governing our indebtedness. Although our credit
agreement and the first supplemental indenture relating to our senior notes (which we refer to as the
senior notes indenture) contain covenants that restrict our ability to incur debt, as long as we meet
these covenants we will be able to incur additional indebtedness. The degree to which we are leveraged
on a consolidated basis could have important consequences to the holders of our securities, including:
• our ability in the future to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures
or acquisitions may be limited;
10• we may not be able to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us or at all;
• a significant portion of our cash flow is likely to be dedicated to the payment of interest on our
indebtedness, thereby reducing funds available for future operations, capital expenditures,
acquisitions and/or dividends on our common stock; and
• we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and be limited in our ability to withstand
competitive pressures.
We are subject to restrictive debt covenants and other requirements related to our debt that limit our business
flexibility by imposing operating and financial restrictions on our operations.
The agreements governing our indebtedness impose significant operating and financial restrictions
on us. These restrictions prohibit or limit, among other things:
• the incurrence of additional indebtedness and the issuance of certain preferred stock or
redeemable capital stock;
• the payment of dividends on, and purchase or redemption of, capital stock;
• a number of restricted payments, including investments;
• specified sales of assets;
• specified transactions with affiliates;
• the creation of certain types of liens;
• consolidations, mergers and transfers of all or substantially all of our assets; and
• entry into certain sale and leaseback transactions.
Our credit agreement requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy financial
condition tests, including, without limitation, the following: a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum
interest coverage ratio.
Our ability to comply with the ratios or tests may be affected by events beyond our control,
including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. A breach of any of these covenants, or
failure to meet or maintain ratios or tests could result in a default under our credit agreement and/or
our senior notes indenture. Certain events of default under our credit agreement and our senior notes
indenture would prohibit us from paying dividends on our common stock. In addition, upon the
occurrence of an event of default under our credit agreement or our senior notes indenture, the
lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the credit agreement and the senior notes,
together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay those
amounts, the credit agreement lenders could proceed against the security granted to them to secure
that indebtedness. If the lenders accelerate the payment of the indebtedness, our assets may not be
sufficient to repay in full this indebtedness and our other indebtedness.
To service our indebtedness, we require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on
many factors beyond our control.
Our ability to make interest payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, and to fund planned
capital expenditures and potential acquisitions depends on our ability to generate cash flow from
operations in the future. This ability, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial,
competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control.
11A significant portion of our cash flow from operations is dedicated to servicing our debt
requirements. In addition, in accordance with our current dividend policy we intend to continue
distributing a significant portion of any remaining cash flow to our stockholders as dividends.
Our ability to continue to expand our business is, to a certain extent, dependent upon our ability
to borrow funds under our credit agreement and to obtain other third-party financing, including
through the issuance and sale of additional debt or equity securities.
Financial market conditions may impede our access to, or increase the cost of, financing for acquisitions.
Any future financial market disruptions or tightening of the credit markets, may make it more
difficult for us to obtain financing for acquisitions or increase the cost of obtaining financing. In
addition, our borrowing costs can be affected by short and long-term debt ratings assigned by
independent rating agencies that are based, in significant part, on our performance as measured by
credit metrics such as interest coverage and leverage ratios. A decrease in these ratings could increase
our cost of borrowing or make it more difficult for us to obtain financing.
Future disruptions in the credit markets or other factors, could impair our ability to refinance our debt upon
terms acceptable to us or at all.
Our $200.0 million revolving credit facility and our $144.4 million of tranche A term loan
borrowings mature on November 30, 2016, our $248.5 million of senior notes mature on January 15,
2018 and our $223.3 million of tranche B term loan borrowings mature on November 30, 2018
(provided that the maturity date of the tranche B term loans will be accelerated to October 17, 2017 if
our senior notes are not refinanced on or prior to that date). Our ability to raise debt or equity capital
in the public or private markets in order to effect a refinancing of our debt at or prior to maturity
could be impaired by various factors, including factors beyond our control. For example, in recent years
U.S. credit markets experienced significant dislocations and liquidity disruptions that caused the spreads
on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. These circumstances materially impacted liquidity
in the debt markets, making financing terms for borrowers less attractive, and in certain cases resulted
in the unavailability of certain types of debt financing. Any future uncertainty in the credit markets
could negatively impact our ability to access additional debt financing or to refinance existing
indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all. In addition, any future uncertainty in other financial markets
in the U.S. could make it more difficult or costly for us to raise capital through the issuance of
common stock or other equity securities. Any of these risks could impair our ability to fund our
operations or limit our ability to expand our business or increase our interest expense, which could
have a material adverse effect on our financial results.
If we are unable to refinance our indebtedness at or prior to maturity on commercially reasonable
terms or at all, we would be forced to seek other alternatives, including:
• sales of assets;
• sales of equity; and
• negotiations with our lenders or noteholders to restructure the applicable debt.
If we are forced to pursue any of the above options, our business and/or the value of an
investment in our securities could be adversely affected.
We rely on co-packers for a significant portion of our manufacturing needs, and the inability to enter into
additional or future co-packing agreements may result in our failure to meet customer demand.
We rely upon co-packers for a significant portion of our manufacturing needs. The success of our
business depends, in part, on maintaining a strong sourcing and manufacturing platform. We believe
12that there are a limited number of competent, high-quality co-packers in the industry, and if we were
required to obtain additional or alternative co-packing agreements or arrangements in the future, we
can provide no assurance that we would be able to do so on satisfactory terms or in a timely manner.
Our inability to enter into satisfactory co-packing agreements could limit our ability to implement our
business plan or meet customer demand.
We rely on the performance of major retailers, wholesalers, specialty distributors and mass merchants for the
success of our business, and should they perform poorly or give higher priority to other brands or products,
our business could be adversely affected.
We sell our products principally to retail outlets and wholesale distributors including, traditional
supermarkets, mass merchants, warehouse clubs, wholesalers, food service distributors and direct
accounts, specialty food distributors, military commissaries and non-food outlets such as drug store
chains and dollar stores. The replacement by or poor performance of our major wholesalers, retailers
or chains or our inability to collect accounts receivable from our customers could materially and
adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our customers offer
branded and private label products that compete directly with our products for retail shelf space and
consumer purchases. Accordingly, there is a risk that our customers may give higher priority to their
own products or to the products of our competitors. In the future, our customers may not continue to
purchase our products or provide our products with adequate levels of promotional support.
We may be unable to anticipate changes in consumer preferences, which may result in decreased demand for
our products.
Our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and offer products that appeal to the
changing tastes, dietary habits and product packaging preferences of consumers in the market
categories in which we compete. If we are not able to anticipate, identify or develop and market
products that respond to these changes in consumer preferences, demand for our products may decline
and our operating results may be adversely affected. In addition, we may incur significant costs related
to developing and marketing new products or expanding our existing product lines in reaction to what
we perceive to be increased consumer preference or demand. Such development or marketing may not
result in the volume of sales or profitability anticipated.
Severe weather conditions and natural disasters can affect crop supplies and reduce our operating results.
Severe weather conditions and natural disasters, such as floods, droughts, frosts, earthquakes or
pestilence, may affect the supply of the raw materials that we use for our products. Our maple syrup
products, for instance, are particularly susceptible to severe freezing conditions in Quebec, Canada and ´
Vermont during the season in which maple syrup is produced. Competing manufacturers can be
affected differently by weather conditions and natural disasters depending on the location of their
supplies. If our supplies of raw materials are reduced, we may not be able to find supplemental supply
sources on favorable terms or at all, which could adversely affect our business and operating results.
Most of our products are sourced from single manufacturing sites.
Our products are manufactured at many different manufacturing facilities, including our seven
manufacturing facilities and manufacturing facilities operated by our co-packers. However, in most
cases, individual products are produced only at a single location. If any of these manufacturing
locations experiences a disruption for any reason, including a work stoppage, power failure, fire, or
weather related condition or natural disaster, etc., this could result in a significant reduction or
elimination of the availability of some of our products. If we were not able to obtain alternate
production capability in a timely manner or on satisfactory terms, this could have a material adverse
effect on our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.
13Our operations are subject to numerous laws and governmental regulations, exposing us to potential claims
and compliance costs that could adversely affect our business.
Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
(FDA), the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), the Federal Trade Commission (FTC),
the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC), the United States Department of Labor, the
Environmental Protection Agency and various other federal, state, local and foreign authorities. Any
changes in these laws and regulations, or any changes in how existing or future laws or regulations will
be enforced, administered or interpreted could increase the cost of developing, manufacturing and
distributing our products or otherwise increase the cost of conducting our business, or expose us to
additional risk of liabilities and claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our business,
consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. In addition, failure by us to comply
with applicable laws and regulations, including future laws and regulations, could subject us to civil
remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, which
could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition, results of
operations or liquidity. See Item 1, ‘‘Business—Government Regulation’’ and ‘‘—Environmental
Matters.’’
Failure by third-party co-packers or suppliers of raw materials to comply with food safety, environmental or
other regulations may disrupt our supply of certain products and adversely affect our business.
We rely on co-packers to produce certain of our products and on other suppliers to supply raw
materials. Such co-packers and other suppliers, whether in the United States or outside the United
States, are subject to a number of regulations, including food safety and environmental regulations.
Failure by any of our co-packers or other suppliers to comply with regulations, or allegations of
compliance failure, may disrupt their operations. Disruption of the operations of a co-packer or other
suppliers could disrupt our supply of product or raw materials, which could have an adverse effect on
our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Additionally, actions we
may take to mitigate the impact of any such disruption or potential disruption, including increasing
inventory in anticipation of a potential production or supply interruption, may adversely affect our
business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.
We may be subject to significant liability should the consumption of any of our products cause injury, illness
or death.
The sale of food products for human consumption involves the risk of injury to consumers. Such
injuries may result from mislabeling, tampering by unauthorized third parties or product contamination
or spoilage, including the presence of foreign objects, substances, chemicals, other agents or residues
introduced during the growing, manufacturing, storage, handling or transportation phases of production.
Under certain circumstances, we may be required to recall products, leading to a material adverse
effect on our business. Even if a situation does not necessitate a recall, product liability claims might be
asserted against us. We have from time to time been involved in product liability lawsuits, none of
which have been material to our business. While we are subject to governmental inspection and
regulations and believe our facilities comply in all material respects with all applicable laws and
regulations, if the consumption of any of our products causes, or is alleged to have caused, a healthrelated illness in the future we may become subject to claims or lawsuits relating to such matters. Even
if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any
assertion that our products caused injury, illness or death could adversely affect our reputation with
existing and potential customers and our corporate and brand image. Moreover, claims or liabilities of
this sort might not be covered by our insurance or by any rights of indemnity or contribution that we
may have against others. We maintain product liability insurance in an amount that we believe to be
adequate. However, we cannot be sure that we will not incur claims or liabilities for which we are not
14insured or that exceed the amount of our insurance coverage. Additionally, we do not maintain product
recall insurance. A product liability judgment against us or a product recall could have a material
adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.
Consumer concern regarding the safety and quality of food products or health concerns could adversely affect
sales of certain of our products.
If consumers in our principal markets lose confidence in the safety and quality of our food
products even without a product liability claim or a product recall, our business could be adversely
affected. Consumers have been increasingly focused on food safety and health and wellness with respect
to the food products they buy. We have been and will continue to be impacted by publicity concerning
the health implications of food products generally, which could negatively influence consumer
perception and acceptance of our products and marketing programs. Developments in any of these
areas could cause our results to differ materially from results that have been or may be projected.
Risk associated with foreign suppliers and co-packers, including changes in import/export duties, wage rates,
political or economic climates, or exchange rates, may adversely affect our operations.
Our relationships with foreign suppliers and co-packers subject us to the risks of doing business
outside the United States. The countries from which we source our products may be subject to political
and economic instability, and may periodically enact new or revise existing laws, taxes, duties, quotas,
tariffs, currency controls or other restrictions to which we are subject. Our products are subject to
import duties and other restrictions, and the U.S. government may periodically impose new or revise
existing duties, quotas, tariffs or other restrictions to which we are subject. In addition, changes in
respective wage rates among the countries from which we and our competitors source product could
substantially impact our competitive position. Changes in exchange rates, import/export duties or
relative international wage rates applicable to us or our competitors could adversely impact our
business, financial condition and results of operations. These changes may impact us in a different
manner than our competitors.
A weakening of the U.S. dollar in relation to the Canadian dollar would significantly increase our future costs
relating to the production of maple syrup products.
We purchase the majority of our maple syrup requirements from suppliers in Quebec, Canada. A ´
weakening of the U.S. dollar in relation to the Canadian dollar would significantly increase our future
costs relating to the production of our maple syrup products to the extent we have not purchased
Canadian dollars or otherwise entered into a currency hedging arrangement in advance of any such
weakening of the U.S. dollar.
Litigation regarding our trademarks and any other proprietary rights and intellectual property infringement
claims may have a significant negative impact on our business.
We maintain an extensive trademark portfolio that we consider to be of significant importance to
our business. If the actions we take to establish and protect our trademarks and other proprietary
rights are not adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from
seeking to block sales of our products as an alleged violation of their trademarks and proprietary rights,
it may be necessary for us to initiate or enter into litigation in the future to enforce our trademark
rights or to defend ourselves against claimed infringement of the rights of others. Any legal proceedings
could result in an adverse determination that could have a material adverse effect on our business,
consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.
15We face risks associated with our defined benefit pension plans and multiemployer pension plan obligations.
We maintain three defined benefit pension plans that cover substantially all of our employees. A
deterioration in the value of plan assets resulting from poor market performance, a general financial
downturn or otherwise could cause an increase in the amount of contributions we are required to make
to these plans. For example, our defined benefit pension plans may from time to time move from an
overfunded to underfunded status driven by decreases in plan asset values that may result from changes
in long-term interests rates and disruptions in U.S. or global financial markets. Additionally, historically
low interest rates coupled with poor market performance has the effect of decreasing the funded status
of these plans which results in greater contributions. For a more detailed description of these plans, see
Item 7, ‘‘Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—
Critical Accounting Policies; Use of Estimates—Pension Expenses’’ and Note 11, ‘‘Pension Benefits,’’ to
our consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
We also participate in a multiemployer pension plan maintained by the labor union representing
certain of our employees at our Portland, Maine facility. We make periodic contributions to this plan
pursuant to the terms of a collective bargaining agreement. In the event that we withdraw from
participation in this plan or substantially reduce our participation in this plan (such as due to a
workforce reduction), applicable law could require us to make withdrawal liability payments to the
plan, and we would have to reflect that liability on our balance sheet. The amount of our withdrawal
liability would depend on the extent of this plan’s funding of vested benefits at the time of our
withdrawal. Furthermore, our withdrawal liability could increase as the number of employers
participating in this plan decreases.
The multiemployer plan, to which we contribute, has significant underfunded liabilities. Due to the
level of underfunding, this plan has been determined to be in ‘‘critical’’ status. While this plan is in
critical status, we are required to make additional plan contributions until we agree to a new collective
bargaining agreement that implements a rehabilitation plan to improve the plan’s funded status.
Accordingly, our required contributions to this plan may increase substantially when our next collective
bargaining agreement is executed.
For a more detailed description of this multiemployer plan, see Note 11, ‘‘Pension Benefits,’’ to
our consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
An obligation to make additional, unanticipated contributions to our defined benefit plans or the
multiemployer plan described above could reduce the cash available for working capital and other
corporate uses, and may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial position,
results of operations and liquidity.
Our financial well-being could be jeopardized by unforeseen changes in our employees’ collective bargaining
agreements, shifts in union policy or labor disruptions in the food industry.
As of December 29, 2012, approximately 34% of our 999 employees were covered by collective
bargaining agreements. A prolonged work stoppage or strike at any of our facilities with union
employees or a significant work disruption from other labor disputes in the food or related industries
could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition, results of
operations or liquidity. If prior to the expiration of any of our collective bargaining agreements we are
unable to reach new agreements without union action or any such new agreements are not on terms
satisfactory to us, our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity could
be materially and adversely affected.
16If we are unable to retain our key management personnel, our growth and future success may be impaired
and our results of operations could suffer as a result.
Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of senior
management, certain of whom would be difficult to replace. As a result, departure by members of our
senior management could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In
addition, we do not maintain key-man life insurance on any of our executive officers.
We are a holding company and we rely on dividends, interest and other payments, advances and transfers of
funds from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations.
We are a holding company, with all of our assets held by our direct and indirect subsidiaries, and
we rely on dividends and other payments or distributions from our subsidiaries to meet our debt service
obligations and to enable us to pay dividends. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make
other payments or distributions to us depends on their respective operating results and may be
restricted by, among other things, the laws of their jurisdiction of organization (which may limit the
amount of funds available for the payment of dividends), agreements of those subsidiaries, our credit
agreement, our senior notes indenture and the covenants of any future outstanding indebtedness we or
our subsidiaries incur.
Future changes that increase cash taxes payable by us could significantly decrease our future cash flow
available to make interest and dividend payments with respect to our securities.
We are able to amortize goodwill and certain intangible assets within the meaning of Section 197
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. We expect to be able to amortize for tax purposes
approximately $497.3 million between 2012 and 2027. The expected annual deductions are
approximately $50.6 million for fiscal 2013, approximately $45.8 million for fiscal 2014, approximately
$44.7 million per year for fiscal 2015 through 2017, approximately $42.1 million for fiscal 2018,
approximately $37.7 million per year for fiscal 2019 and 2020, approximately $35.6 million for fiscal
2021, approximately $24.7 million for fiscal 2022, approximately $22.5 million per year for fiscal 2023
through 2025, approximately $20.6 million for fiscal 2026 and approximately $0.9 million for fiscal 2027.
If there is a change in U.S. federal tax policy that reduces any of these available deductions or results
in an increase in our corporate tax rate, our cash taxes payable may increase, which could significantly
reduce our future cash and impact our ability to make interest and dividend payments.
A change in the assumptions used to value our goodwill or our indefinite-lived intangible assets could
negatively affect our consolidated results of operations and net worth.
Our total assets include substantial goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets (trademarks).
These assets are tested for impairment at least annually and whenever events or circumstances occur
indicating that goodwill or indefinite-lived intangibles might be impaired. The annual goodwill
impairment test involves a two-step process. The first step of the impairment test involves comparing
our company’s market capitalization with our company’s carrying value, including goodwill. If the
carrying value of our company exceeds our market capitalization, we perform the second step of the
impairment test to determine the amount of the impairment loss. The second step of the goodwill
impairment test involves comparing the implied fair value of goodwill with the carrying value and
recognizing a loss for the difference. We test our indefinite-lived intangibles by comparing the fair value
with the carrying value and recognize a loss for the difference. We estimate the fair value of our
indefinite-lived intangibles by applying third party market value indicators to our adjusted EBITDA or
net sales. Calculating our fair value for these purposes requires significant estimates and assumptions
by management. We completed our annual impairment tests for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010 with no
adjustments to the carrying values of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles. However, materially
different, assumptions regarding the future performance of our businesses could result in significant
17impairment losses. In addition, any significant decline in our market capitalization, even if due to
macroeconomic factors, could put pressure on the carrying value of our goodwill. A determination that
all or a portion of our goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets are impaired, although a non-cash
charge to operations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial
condition and results of operations.
Any future financial market disruptions or tightening of the credit markets could expose us to additional
credit risks from customers and supply risks from suppliers and co-packers.
Any future financial market disruptions or tightening of the credit markets could result in some of
our customers experiencing a significant decline in profits and/or reduced liquidity. A significant
adverse change in the financial and/or credit position of a customer could require us to assume greater
credit risk relating to that customer and could limit our ability to collect receivables. A significant
adverse change in the financial and/or credit position of a supplier or co-packer could result in an
interruption of supply. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial
condition, results of operations and liquidity.
Risks Relating to our Securities
Holders of our common stock may not receive the level of dividends provided for in our dividend policy or any
dividends at all.
Dividend payments are not mandatory or guaranteed and holders of our common stock do not
have any legal right to receive, or require us to pay, dividends. Our board of directors may, in its sole
discretion, decrease the level of dividends provided for in our dividend policy or entirely discontinue
the payment of dividends. Future dividends with respect to shares of our capital stock, if any, depend
on, among other things, our results of operations, cash requirements, financial condition, contractual
restrictions (including restrictions in our credit agreement and senior notes indenture), business
opportunities, provisions of applicable law (including certain provisions of the Delaware General
Corporation Law) and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant.
If our cash flows from operating activities were to fall below our minimum expectations (or if our
assumptions as to capital expenditures or interest expense were too low or our assumptions as to the
sufficiency of our revolving credit facility to finance our working capital needs were to prove incorrect),
we may need either to reduce or eliminate dividends or, to the extent permitted under our credit
agreement and senior notes indenture, fund a portion of our dividends with borrowings or from other
sources. If we were to use working capital or permanent borrowings to fund dividends, we would have
less cash and/or borrowing capacity available for future dividends and other purposes, which could
negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to maintain or
expand our business.
Our dividend policy may negatively impact our ability to finance capital expenditures, operations or
acquisition opportunities.
Under our dividend policy, a substantial portion of our cash generated by our business in excess of
operating needs, interest and principal payments on indebtedness, and capital expenditures sufficient to
maintain our properties and assets is in general distributed as regular quarterly cash dividends to the
holders of our common stock. As a result, we may not retain a sufficient amount of cash to finance
growth opportunities or unanticipated capital expenditure needs or to fund our operations in the event
of a significant business downturn. We may have to forego growth opportunities or capital expenditures
that would otherwise be necessary or desirable if we do not find alternative sources of financing. If we
do not have sufficient cash for these purposes, our financial condition and our business will suffer.
18Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue without stockholder approval preferred stock that may
be senior to our common stock in certain respects.
Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of preferred stock without stockholder
approval and, in the case of preferred stock, upon such terms as the board of directors may determine.
The rights of the holders of shares of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely
affected by, the rights of holders of any class or series of preferred stock that may be issued in the
future, including any preferential rights that we may grant to the holders of preferred stock. The terms
of any preferred stock we issue may place restrictions on the payment of dividends to the holders of
our common stock. If we issue preferred stock that is senior to our common stock in right of dividend
payment, and our cash flows from operating activities or surplus are insufficient to support dividend
payments to the holders of preferred stock, on the one hand, and to the holders common stock, on the
other hand, we may be forced to reduce or eliminate dividends to the holders of our common stock.
Future sales or the possibility of future sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or other
securities convertible or exchangeable into common stock may depress the price of our common stock.
We may issue shares of our common stock or other securities convertible or exchangeable into
common stock from time to time in future financings or as consideration for future acquisitions and
investments. In the event any such future financing, acquisition or investment is significant, the number
of shares of our common stock or other securities convertible or exchangeable into common stock that
we may issue may in turn be significant. In addition, we may grant registration rights covering shares of
our common stock or other securities convertible or exchangeable into common stock, as applicable,
issued in connection with any such future financing, acquisitions and investments.
Future sales or the availability for sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or
other securities convertible or exchangeable into common stock, whether issued and sold pursuant to
our currently effective shelf registration statement or otherwise, would dilute our earnings per share
and the voting power of each share of common stock outstanding prior to such sale or distribution,
could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our securities and could impair our ability to raise
capital through future sales of our securities.
Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and several other factors could limit another party’s ability to
acquire us and deprive our investors of the opportunity to obtain a takeover premium for their securities.
Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain certain provisions that may make it difficult for
another company to acquire us and for holders of our securities to receive any related takeover
premium for their securities. For example, our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of
preferred stock without stockholder approval and upon such terms as the board of directors may
determine. The rights of the holders of shares of our common stock will be subject to, and may be
adversely affected by, the rights of holders of any class or series of preferred stock that may be issued
in the future