The following risks and uncertainties could affect our operating results and should be considered in evaluating
us. While we believe we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, there may
be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant
that may adversely affect our business, performance, or financial condition in the future.
Deterioration of general economic conditions could harm our business and results of operations.
Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in national or global economic
conditions, including inflation, interest rates, availability of capital markets, consumer spending rates, energy
availability and costs (including fuel surcharges), and the effects of governmental initiatives to manage economic
conditions.
Volatility in financial markets and deterioration of national and global economic conditions could impact
our business and operations in a variety of ways, including as follows:
• consumers may shift purchases to lower-priced private label or other value offerings, or may forego
certain purchases altogether during economic downturns, which may adversely affect the results of our
Consumer Foods operations;
• decreased demand in the restaurant business, particularly casual and fine dining, may adversely affect our
Commercial Foods operations;
• volatility in commodity and other input costs could substantially impact our result of operations;
• volatility in the equity markets or interest rates could substantially impact our pension costs and required
pension contributions; and
• it may become more costly or difficult to obtain debt or equity financing to fund operations or investment
opportunities, or to refinance our debt in the future, in each case on terms and within a time period
acceptable to us.
Increases in commodity costs may have a negative impact on profits.
We use many different commodities such as wheat, corn, oats, soybeans, beef, pork, poultry, and energy.
Commodities are subject to price volatility caused by commodity market fluctuations, supply and demand, currency
fluctuations, and changes in governmental agricultural programs. Commodity price increases will result in increases
in raw material costs and operating costs. We may not be able to increase our product prices and achieve cost
savings that fully offset these increased costs; and increasing prices may result in reduced sales volume and
profitability. We have experience in hedging against commodity price increases; however, these practices and
experience reduce, but do not eliminate, the risk of negative profit impacts from commodity price increases.
Increased competition may result in reduced sales or profits.
The food industry is highly competitive, and increased competition can reduce our sales due to loss of market
share or the need to reduce prices to respond to competitive and customer pressures. Competitive pressures also
may restrict our ability to increase prices, including in response to commodity and other cost increases. In most
product categories, we compete not only with other widely advertised branded products, but also with private
label products that are generally sold at lower prices. A strong competitive response from one or more of our
competitors to our marketplace efforts, or a consumer shift towards private label offerings, could result in us
reducing pricing, increasing marketing or other expenditures, or losing market share. Our profits could decrease
if a reduction in prices or increased costs are not counterbalanced with increased sales volume.
Changes in our relationships with significant customers or suppliers could adversely affect us.
During fiscal 2012, our largest customer Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. accounted for approximately 17% of our net
revenues. There can be no assurance that Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and other significant customers will continue to
9purchase our products in the same quantities or on the same terms as in the past, particularly as increasingly
powerful retailers continue to demand lower pricing and develop their own brands. The loss of a significant
customer or a material reduction in sales to a significant customer could materially and adversely affect our
product sales, financial condition, and results of operations.
Disputes with significant suppliers, including pricing or performance, could adversely affect our ability to
supply products to our customers and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition,
and results of operations.
The sophistication and buying power of our customers could have a negative impact on profits.
Many of our customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs, and food distributors, have consolidated in
recent years and consolidation is expected to continue. These consolidations and the growth of supercenters have
produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power and negotiating strength who are more
capable of resisting price increases and operating with reduced inventories. These customers may also in the
future use more of their shelf space, currently used for our products, for their private label products. We continue
to implement initiatives to counteract these pressures. However, if the larger size of these customers results in
additional negotiating strength and/or increased private label competition, our profitability could decline.
We must identify changing consumer preferences and develop and offer food products to meet their preferences.
Consumer preferences evolve over time and the success of our food products depends on our ability to
identify the tastes and dietary habits of consumers and to offer products that appeal to their preferences, including
concerns of consumers regarding health and wellness, obesity, product attributes, and ingredients. Introduction of
new products and product extensions requires significant development and marketing investment. If our products
fail to meet consumer preferences, or we fail to introduce new and improved products on a timely basis, then the
return on that investment will be less than anticipated and our strategy to grow sales and profits with investments
in marketing and innovation will be less successful. Similarly, demand for our products could be affected by
consumer concerns regarding the health effects of ingredients such as sodium, trans fats, sugar, processed wheat,
or other product ingredients or attributes.
If we do not achieve the appropriate cost structure in the highly competitive food industry, our profitability could
decrease.
Our success depends in part on our ability to achieve the appropriate cost structure and operate efficiently in
the highly competitive food industry, particularly in an environment of volatile input costs. We continue to
implement profit-enhancing initiatives that impact our supply chain and general and administrative functions.
These initiatives are focused on cost-saving opportunities in procurement, manufacturing, logistics, and customer
service, as well as general and administrative overhead levels. If we do not continue to effectively manage costs
and achieve additional efficiencies, our competitiveness and our profitability could decrease.
We may be subject to product liability claims and product recalls, which could negatively impact our profitability.
We sell food products for human consumption, which involves risks such as product contamination or
spoilage, product tampering, and other adulteration of food products. We may be subject to liability if the
consumption of any of our products causes injury, illness, or death. In addition, we will voluntarily recall
products in the event of contamination or damage. We have issued recalls and have from time to time been and
currently are involved in lawsuits relating to our food products. A significant product liability judgment or a
widespread product recall may negatively impact our sales and profitability for a period of time depending on
product availability, competitive reaction, and consumer attitudes. Even if a product liability claim is
unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused
illness or injury could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers and our corporate and
brand image.
10Any damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and
results of operations.
Maintaining a good reputation globally is critical to selling our products. Product contamination or
tampering, the failure to maintain high standards for product quality, safety, and integrity, including with respect
to raw materials and ingredients obtained from suppliers, or allegations of product quality issues, mislabeling or
contamination, even if untrue, may reduce demand for our products or cause production and delivery disruptions.
Our reputation could also be adversely impacted by any of the following, or by adverse publicity (whether or not
valid) relating thereto: the failure to maintain high ethical, social, and environmental standards for all of our
operations and activities; the failure to achieve our goals with respect to sodium or saturated fat; our research and
development efforts; our environmental impact, including use of agricultural materials, packaging, energy use,
and waste management; or our responses to any of the foregoing. Failure to comply with local laws and
regulations, to maintain an effective system of internal controls or to provide accurate and timely financial
information could also hurt our reputation. Damage to our reputation or loss of consumer confidence in our
products for any of these or other reasons could result in decreased demand for our products and could have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, as well as require
additional resources to rebuild our reputation.
If we are unable to complete proposed acquisitions or divestitures or integrate acquired businesses, our financial
results could be materially and adversely affected.
From time to time, we evaluate acquisition candidates that may strategically fit our business objectives. If
we are unable to complete acquisitions or to successfully integrate and develop acquired businesses, our financial
results could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we may divest businesses that do not meet our
strategic objectives, or do not meet our growth or profitability targets. We may not be able to complete desired or
proposed divestitures on terms favorable to us. Gains or losses on the sales of, or lost operating income from,
those businesses may affect our profitability. Moreover, we may incur asset impairment charges related to
acquisitions or divestitures that reduce our profitability.
Our acquisition or divestiture activities may present financial, managerial, and operational risks. Those risks
include diversion of management attention from existing businesses, difficulties integrating or separating
personnel and financial and other systems, effective and immediate implementation of control environment
processes across our employee population, adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and
customers, inaccurate estimates of fair value made in the accounting for acquisitions and amortization of
acquired intangible assets which would reduce future reported earnings, potential loss of customers or key
employees of acquired businesses, and indemnities and potential disputes with the buyers or sellers. Any of these
factors could affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations.
Our results could be adversely impacted as a result of increased pension, labor, and people-related expenses.
Inflationary pressures and any shortages in the labor market could increase labor costs, which could have a
material adverse effect on our consolidated operating results or financial condition. Our labor costs include the
cost of providing employee benefits in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions, including pension, health and welfare,
and severance benefits. Any declines in market returns could adversely impact the funding of pension plans.
Additionally, the annual costs of benefits vary with increased costs of health care and the outcome of
collectively-bargained wage and benefit agreements.
If we fail to comply with the many laws applicable to our business, we may face lawsuits or incur significant fines
and penalties.
Our facilities and products are subject to many laws and regulations administered by the United States
Department of Agriculture, the Federal Food and Drug Administration, the Occupational Safety and Health
Administration, and other federal, state, local, and foreign governmental agencies relating to the processing,
packaging, storage, distribution, advertising, labeling, quality, and safety of food products, the health and safety
of our employees, and the protection of the environment. Our failure to comply with applicable laws and
regulations could subject us to lawsuits, administrative penalties and injunctive relief, civil remedies, including
11fines, injunctions, and recalls of our products. Our operations are also subject to extensive and increasingly
stringent regulations administered by the Environmental Protection Agency, which pertain to the discharge of
materials into the environment and the handling and disposition of wastes. Failure to comply with these
regulations can have serious consequences, including civil and administrative penalties and negative publicity.
Changes in applicable laws or regulations or evolving interpretations thereof, including increased government
regulations to limit carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions as a result of concern over climate
change, may result in increased compliance costs, capital expenditures, and other financial obligations for us,
which could affect our profitability or impede the production or distribution of our products, which could affect
our net operating revenues.
Climate change, or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change, may negatively affect our
business and operations.
There is growing concern that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere may have an
adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns, and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and
natural disasters. In the event that such climate change has a negative effect on agricultural productivity, we may
be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for our
products, such as corn, wheat, and potatoes. We may also be subjected to decreased availability or less favorable
pricing for water as a result of such change, which could impact our manufacturing and distribution operations.
In addition, natural disasters and extreme weather conditions may disrupt the productivity of our facilities or the
operation of our supply chain. The increasing concern over climate change also may result in more regional,
federal, and/or global legal and regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of greenhouse gases. In
the event that such regulation is enacted and is more aggressive than the sustainability measures that we are
currently undertaking to monitor our emissions and improve our energy efficiency, we may experience
significant increases in our costs of operation and delivery. In particular, increasing regulation of fuel emissions
could substantially increase the distribution and supply chain costs associated with our products. As a result,
climate change could negatively affect our business and operations.
Our information technology resources must provide efficient connections between our business functions, or our
results of operations will be negatively impacted.
Each year we engage in billions of dollars of transactions with our customers and vendors. Because the
amount of dollars involved is so significant, our information technology resources must provide connections
among our marketing, sales, manufacturing, logistics, customer service, and accounting functions. If we do not
allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure
and to maintain the related automated and manual control processes, we could be subject to billing and collection
errors, business disruptions, or damage resulting from security breaches. We began implementing new financial
and operational information technology systems in fiscal 2008 and placed systems into production during fiscal
2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, and 2012. If future implementation problems are encountered, our results of operations
could be negatively impacted.
We are increasingly dependent on information technology, and potential disruption, cyber attacks, security
problems, and expanding social media vehicles present new risks.
We are increasingly dependent on information technology systems to manage and support a variety of
business processes and activities, and any significant breakdown, invasion, destruction, or interruption of these
systems could negatively impact operations. In addition, there is a risk of business interruption and reputational
damage from leakage of confidential information.
The inappropriate use of certain media vehicles could cause brand damage or information leakage. Negative
posts or comments about the Company on any social networking web site could seriously damage its reputation.
In addition, the disclosure of non-public company sensitive information through external media channels could
lead to information loss. Identifying new points of entry as social media continues to expand presents new
challenges. Any business interruptions or damage to our reputation could negatively impact our financial
condition, results of operation, and the market price of our common stock