We are exposed to market risk stemming from changes in 
interest rates, foreign exchange rates, commodity prices, 
and equity prices. Changes in these factors could cause 
fluctuations in our earnings and cash flows. In the normal course of business, we actively manage our exposure 
to these market risks by entering into various hedging 
transactions, authorized under established policies that 
place clear controls on these activities. The counterparties in these transactions are generally highly rated institutions. We establish credit limits for each counterparty. 
Our hedging transactions include but are not limited to a 
variety of derivative financial instruments.
INTEREST RATE RISK
We are exposed to interest rate volatility with regard 
to future issuances of fixed-rate debt, and existing and 
future issuances of floating-rate debt. Primary exposures 
include U.S. Treasury rates, LIBOR, Euribor, and commercial paper rates in the United States and Europe. We use 
interest rate swaps and forward-starting interest rate 
swaps to hedge our exposure to interest rate changes, 
to reduce the volatility of our financing costs, and to 
achieve a desired proportion of fixed versus floating-rate 
debt, based on current and projected market conditions. 
Generally under these swaps, we agree with a counterparty to exchange the difference between fixed-rate and 
floating-rate interest amounts based on an agreed upon 
notional principal amount.
As of May 27, 2012, we had interest rate swaps with 
$835 million of aggregate notional principal amount outstanding, all of which converts fixed-rate notes to floating-rate notes.
FOREIGN EXCHANGE RISK
Foreign currency fluctuations affect our net investments 
in foreign subsidiaries and foreign currency cash flows 
related to third party purchases, intercompany loans, 
product shipments, and foreign-denominated commercial 
paper. We are also exposed to the translation of foreign 
currency earnings to the U.S. dollar. Our principal exposures are to the Australian dollar, Brazilian real, British 
pound sterling, Canadian dollar, Chinese renminbi, euro, 
Japanese yen, Swiss franc, and Mexican peso. We mainly 
use foreign currency forward contracts to selectively
hedge our foreign currency cash flow exposures. We 
also generally swap our foreign-denominated commercial 
paper borrowings and nonfunctional currency intercompany loans back to U.S. dollars or the functional currency; the gains or losses on these derivatives offset the 
foreign currency revaluation gains or losses recorded in 
earnings on the associated borrowings. We generally do 
not hedge more than 18 months forward.
We also have many net investments in foreign subsidiaries that are denominated in euros. We previously 
hedged a portion of these net investments by issuing euro-denominated commercial paper and foreign 
exchange forward contracts. As of May 27, 2012, we had 
deferred net foreign currency transaction losses of $96 
million in AOCI associated with hedging activity.
COMMODITY PRICE RISK
Many commodities we use in the production and distribution of our products are exposed to market price 
risks. We utilize derivatives to manage price risk for our 
principal ingredients and energy costs, including grains 
(oats, wheat, and corn), oils (principally soybean), non-fat 
dry milk, natural gas, and diesel fuel. Our primary objective when entering into these derivative contracts is to 
achieve certainty with regard to the future price of commodities purchased for use in our supply chain. We manage our exposures through a combination of purchase 
orders, long-term contracts with suppliers, exchangetraded futures and options, and over-the-counter options 
and swaps. We offset our exposures based on current 
and projected market conditions and generally seek to 
acquire the inputs at as close to our planned cost as 
possible.
As of May 27, 2012, the net notional value of commodity derivatives was $307 million, of which $127 million 
related to agricultural inputs and $180 million related to 
energy inputs. These contracts relate to inputs that generally will be utilized within the next 12 months.
EQUITY INSTRUMENTS
Equity price movements affect our compensation expense 
as certain investments made by our employees in our 
deferred compensation plan are revalued. We use equity 
swaps to manage this risk. As of May 27, 2012, the net 
notional amount of our equity swaps was $48 million
VALUE AT RISK
The estimates in the table below are intended to measure the maximum potential fair value we could lose in 
one day from adverse changes in market interest rates, 
foreign exchange rates, commodity prices, and equity 
prices under normal market conditions. A Monte Carlo 
value-at-risk (VAR) methodology was used to quantify 
the market risk for our exposures. The models assumed 
normal market conditions and used a 95 percent confidence level.
The VAR calculation used historical interest rates, foreign exchange rates, and commodity and equity prices 
from the past year to estimate the potential volatility 
and correlation of these rates in the future. The market 
data were drawn from the RiskMetrics™ data set. The 
calculations are not intended to represent actual losses 
in fair value that we expect to incur. Further, since the 
hedging instrument (the derivative) inversely correlates 
with the underlying exposure, we would expect that any 
loss or gain in the fair value of our derivatives would be 
generally offset by an increase or decrease in the fair 
value of the underlying exposure. The positions included 
in the calculations were: debt; investments; interest rate 
swaps; foreign exchange forwards; commodity swaps, 
futures and options; and equity instruments. The calculations do not include the underlying foreign exchange 
and commodities or equity-related positions that are offset by these market-risk-sensitive instruments. 
The table below presents the estimated maximum 
potential VAR arising from a one-day loss in fair value 
for our interest rate, foreign currency, commodity, and 
equity market-risk-sensitive instruments outstanding as 
of May 27, 2012, and May 29, 2011, and the average fair 
value impact during the year ended May 27, 2012

