Risk Management Activities
As a part of our ongoing operations, we are exposed to 
market risks such as changes in interest and foreign 
currency exchange rates and commodity and equity 
prices. To manage these risks, we may enter into various derivative transactions (e.g., futures, options, and 
swaps) pursuant to our established policies.
Commodity Price Risk
Many commodities we use in the production and distribution of our products are exposed to market price 
risks. We utilize derivatives to manage price risk for 
our principal ingredients and energy costs, including 
grains (oats, wheat, and corn), oils (principally soybean), 
dairy products, natural gas, and diesel fuel. Our primary 
objective when entering into these derivative contracts 
is to achieve certainty with regard to the future price 
of commodities purchased for use in our supply chain. 
We manage our exposures through a combination of 
purchase orders, long-term contracts with suppliers, 
exchange-traded futures and options, and over-thecounter options and swaps. We off set our exposures 
based on current and projected market conditions and 
generally seek to acquire the inputs at as close to our 
planned cost as possible.
We use derivatives to manage our exposure to 
changes in commodity prices. We do not perform 
the assessments required to achieve hedge accounting for commodity derivative positions. Accordingly, 
the changes in the values of these derivatives are 
recorded currently in cost of sales in our Consolidated 
Statements of Earnings. 
Although we do not meet the criteria for cash fl ow 
hedge accounting, we nonetheless believe that these 
instruments are eff ective in achieving our objective of 
providing certainty in the future price of commodities 
purchased for use in our supply chain. Accordingly, for 
purposes of measuring segment operating performance 
these gains and losses are reported in unallocated corporate items outside of segment operating results until 
such time that the exposure we are managing aff ects 
earnings. At that time we reclassify the gain or loss 
from unallocated corporate items to segment operating 
profi t, allowing our operating segments to realize the 
economic eff ects of the derivative without experiencing 
any resulting mark-to-market volatility, which remains 
in unallocated corporate items. 
Unallocated corporate items for fi scal 2015, 2014 and 
2013 included:
As of May 31, 2015, the net notional value of commodity derivatives was $384.0 million, of which $214.7 
million related to agricultural inputs and $169.3 million 
related to energy inputs. Th ese contracts relate to inputs 
that generally will be utilized within the next 12 months. 
Interest Rate Risk
We are exposed to interest rate volatility with regard 
to future issuances of fi xed-rate debt, and existing 
and future issuances of fl oating-rate debt. Primary 
exposures include U.S. Treasury rates, LIBOR, Euribor, 
and commercial paper rates in the United States and 
Europe. We use interest rate swaps, forward-starting 
interest rate swaps, and treasury locks to hedge our 
exposure to interest rate changes, to reduce the volatility of our fi nancing costs, and to achieve a desired 
proportion of fi xed versus fl oating-rate debt, based on 
current and projected market conditions. Generally 
under these swaps, we agree with a counterparty to 
exchange the diff erence between fi xed-rate and fl oating-rate interest amounts based on an agreed upon 
notional principal amount.
Floating Interest Rate Exposures — Floating-tofi xed interest rate swaps are accounted for as cash 
fl ow hedges, as are all hedges of forecasted issuances 
of debt. Eff ectiveness is assessed based on either the 
perfectly eff ective hypothetical derivative method or 
changes in the present value of interest payments on 
the underlying debt. Eff ective gains and losses deferred 
to AOCI are reclassifi ed into earnings over the life of 
the associated debt. Ineff ective gains and losses are 
recorded as net interest. Th e amount of hedge ineff ectiveness was less than $1 million in each of fi scal 2015, 
2014, and 2013.
Fixed Interest Rate Exposures — Fixed-to-fl oating 
interest rate swaps are accounted for as fair value 
hedges with eff ectiveness assessed based on changes 
in the fair value of the underlying debt and derivatives, 
using incremental borrowing rates currently available 
on loans with similar terms and maturities. Ineff ective 
gains and losses on these derivatives and the underlying hedged items are recorded as net interest. Th e 
amount of hedge ineff ectiveness was a $1.6 million gain 
in fi scal 2015 and less than $1 million in fi scal 2014 
and 2013.
In advance of planned debt fi nancing, we entered 
into €600.0 million of forward starting swaps with an 
average fi xed rate of 0.5 percent. All of these forward 
starting swaps were cash settled for $6.5 million during
the fourth quarter of fi scal 2015, coincident with the 
issuance of our €500 million 8-year fi xed-rate notes 
and €400 million 12-year fi xed-rate notes.
During the second quarter of fi scal 2015, we entered 
into swaps to convert $500.0 million of 1.4 percent 
fi xed-rate notes due October 20, 2017, and $500.0 million of 2.2 percent fi xed-rate notes due October 21, 
2019, to fl oating rates.
In advance of planned debt fi nancing, we entered 
into $250.0 million of treasury locks with an average 
fi xed rate of 1.99 percent. All of these treasury locks 
were cash settled for $17.9 million during the third 
quarter of fi scal 2014, coincident with the issuance of 
our $500.0 million 10-year fi xed-rate notes. 
During the third quarter of fi scal 2013, we entered 
into swaps to convert $250.0 million of 0.875 percent 
fi xed-rate notes due January 29, 2016, to fl oating rates. 
As of May 31, 2015, the pre-tax amount of cash-settled interest rate hedge gain or loss remaining in AOCI 
which will be reclassifi ed to earnings over the remaining term of the related underlying debt follows:
Th e following table summarizes the notional amounts 
and weighted-average interest rates of our interest rate 
derivatives. Average fl oating rates are based on rates as 
of the end of the reporting period. Foreign Exchange Risk
Foreign currency fl uctuations aff ect our net investments in foreign subsidiaries and foreign currency cash 
fl ows related to third party purchases, intercompany 
loans, product shipments, and foreign-denominated 
debt. We are also exposed to the translation of foreign 
currency earnings to the U.S. dollar. Our principal exposures are to the Australian dollar, Brazilian real, British 
pound sterling, Canadian dollar, Chinese renminbi, 
euro, Japanese yen, Mexican peso, and Swiss franc. 
We mainly use foreign currency forward contracts to 
selectively hedge our foreign currency cash fl ow exposures. We also generally swap our foreign-denominated 
commercial paper borrowings and nonfunctional currency intercompany loans back to U.S. dollars or the 
functional currency of the entity with foreign exchange 
exposure; the gains or losses on these derivatives off -
set the foreign currency revaluation gains or losses 
recorded in earnings on the associated borrowings. We 
generally do not hedge more than 18 months forward.
As of May 31, 2015, the net notional value of foreign 
exchange derivatives was $1,448.5 million. Th e amount 
of hedge ineff ectiveness was less than $1 million in 
each of fi scal 2015, 2014, and 2013.
We also have many net investments in foreign subsidiaries that are denominated in euros. We previously 
hedged a portion of these net investments by issuing euro-denominated commercial paper and foreign 
exchange forward contracts. During the fourth quarter 
of fi scal 2015, we entered into a net investment hedge 
for a portion of our net investment in foreign operations denominated in euros by issuing €900.0 million 
of euro-denominated bonds. During the second quarter 
of fi scal 2014, we entered into a net investment hedge 
for a portion of our net investment in foreign operations denominated in euros by issuing €500.0 million 
of euro-denominated bonds. As of May 31, 2015, we 
had deferred net foreign currency transaction gains of 
$10.7 million in AOCI associated with hedging activity.
Venezuela is a highly infl ationary economy and we 
remeasure the value of the assets and liabilities of our 
Venezuelan subsidiary based on the exchange rate at 
which we expect to remit dividends in U.S. dollars. In 
February 2014, the Venezuelan government established 
a new foreign exchange market mechanism (SICAD 2) 
and at that time indicated that it would be the market through which U.S. dollars would be obtained for 
the remittance of dividends. On February 12, 2015, the 
Venezuelan government replaced SICAD 2 with a new 
foreign exchange market mechanism (SIMADI). We 
expect to be able to access U.S. dollars through the 
SIMADI market. SIMADI has signifi cantly higher foreign exchange rates than those available through the 
other foreign exchange mechanisms. In fi scal 2015, 
we recorded an $8.0 million foreign exchange loss in 
unallocated corporate items resulting from the remeasurement of assets and liabilities of our Venezuelan 
subsidiary at the SIMADI rate of 199 bolivars per U.S. 
dollar. Our Venezuela operations represent less than 1 
percent of our consolidated assets, liabilities, net sales, 
and segment operating profi t. As of May 31, 2015, we 
had $0.3 million of non-U.S. dollar cash balances in 
Venezuela
