Our business and assets are subject to varying degrees of risk and
uncertainty. The following are factors that we believe could cause our
actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results.
Additional risks that are currently unknown to us may also impair our
business or adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, forward-looking statements within the meaning of
the federal securities laws that are contained in this Form 10-K or in
our other filings or statements may be subject to the risks described
below as well as other risks and uncertainties. Please read the cautionary notice regarding forward-looking statements in Item 7 below.
Current economic conditions may adversely impact demand for our
products, reduce access to credit and cause our customers and others
with which we do business to suffer financial hardship, all of which
could adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial
condition and cash flows.
Economic conditions in the US, the European Union, South America
and many other countries and regions in which we do business have
experienced various levels of weakness over the last few years, and
may remain challenging for the foreseeable future. General business
and economic conditions that could affect us include the strength of
the economies in which we operate, unemployment, inflation and
fluctuations in debt markets. While currently these conditions have
not impaired our ability to access credit markets and finance our
operations, there can be no assurance that there will not be a further
deterioration in the financial markets.
There could be a number of other effects from these economic
developments on our business, including reduced consumer demand
for products; insolvency of our customers, resulting in increased provisions for credit losses; decreased customer demand, including order
delays or cancellations and counterparty failures negatively impacting
our operations.
In connection with our defined benefit pension plans, adverse
changes in investment returns earned on pension assets and discount
rates used to calculate pension and related liabilities or changes in
required pension funding levels may have an unfavorable impact on
future pension expense and cash flow.
In addition, the volatile worldwide economic conditions and market
instability may make it difficult for us, our customers and our suppliers
to accurately forecast future product demand trends, which could
cause us to produce excess products that can increase our inventory
carrying costs. Alternatively, this forecasting difficulty could cause a
shortage of products that could result in an inability to satisfy
demand for our products We operate a multinational business subject to the economic, political
and other risks inherent in operating in foreign countries and with 
foreign currencies.
We have operated in foreign countries and with foreign currencies
for many years. Our results are subject to foreign currency exchange
fluctuations. Our operations are subject to political, economic and
other risks. There has been and continues to be significant political
uncertainty in some countries in which we operate. Economic changes,
terrorist activity and political unrest may result in business interruption
or decreased demand for our products. Protectionist trade measures and
import and export licensing requirements could also adversely affect
our results of operations. Our success will depend in part on our ability
to manage continued global political and/or economic uncertainty.
We primarily sell world commodities. Historically, local prices
have adjusted relatively quickly to offset the effect of local currency
devaluations, but there can be no assurance that this will continue 
to be the case. We may hedge transactions that are denominated in 
a currency other than the currency of the operating unit entering 
into the underlying transaction. We are subject to the risks normally
attendant to such hedging activities.
Raw material and energy price fluctuations, and supply interruptions
and shortages could adversely affect our results of operations.
Our finished products are made primarily from corn. Purchased corn
and other raw material costs account for between 40 percent and 
65 percent of finished product costs. Some of our products are based
upon specific varieties of corn that are produced in significantly less
volumes than yellow dent corn. These specialty grains are higher cost
due to their more limited supply and require planning cycles of up to
three years in order for us to receive our desired amount of specialty
corn. Also, we utilize tapioca in the manufacturing of starch products
in Thailand. If our raw materials are not available in sufficient quantities
or quality, our results of operations could be negatively impacted.
Energy costs represent approximately 10 percent of our finished
product costs. We use energy primarily to create steam in our production process and to dry product. We consume coal, natural gas,
electricity, wood and fuel oil to generate energy. In Pakistan, the
overall economy has been slowed by severe energy shortages which
both negatively impact our ability to produce sweeteners and starches,
and also negatively impacts the demand from our customers due to
their inability to produce their end products because of the shortage
of reliable energy The market prices for these commodities may vary considerably
depending on supply and demand, world economies and other factors.
We purchase these commodities based on our anticipated usage and
future outlook for these costs. We cannot assure that we will be able
to purchase these commodities at prices that we can adequately pass
on to customers to sustain or increase profitability. 
In North America, we sell a large portion of our finished products
at firm prices established in supply contracts typically lasting for periods
of up to one year. In order to minimize the effect of volatility in the
cost of corn related to these firm-priced supply contracts, we enter into
corn futures and options contracts, or take other hedging positions 
in the corn futures market. We are unable to directly hedge price risk
related to co-product sales; however, we enter into hedges of soybean
oil (a competing product to our animal feed and corn oil) in order 
to mitigate the price risk of animal feed and corn oil sales. These
derivative contracts typically mature within one year. At expiration,
we settle the derivative contracts at a net amount equal to the difference between the then-current price of corn (or soybean oil) and the
derivative contract price. These hedging instruments are subject to
fluctuations in value; however, changes in the value of the underlying exposures we are hedging generally offset such fluctuations. The
fluctuations in the fair value of these hedging instruments may affect
the cash flow of the Company. We fund any unrealized losses or receive
cash for any unrealized gains on a daily basis. While the corn futures
contracts or hedging positions are intended to minimize the effect of
volatility of corn costs on operating profits, the hedging activity can
result in losses, some of which may be material. Outside of North
America, sales of finished products under long-term, firm-priced supply
contracts are not material. We also use over-the-counter natural gas
swaps to hedge portions of our natural gas costs, primarily in our
North American operations.
Due to market volatility, we cannot assure that we can adequately
pass potential increases in the cost of corn and other raw materials on
to customers through product price increases or purchase quantities of
corn and other raw materials at prices sufficient to sustain or increase
our profitability.
Our corn and raw material costs account for 40 percent to 65 percent
of our product costs. The price and availability of corn and other raw
materials is influenced by economic and industry conditions, including
supply and demand factors such as crop disease and severe weather
conditions such as drought, floods or frost that are difficult to anticipate and which we cannot control. There is also a demand for corn 
in the US to produce ethanol which has been significantly impacted
by US governmental policies designed to encourage the production
of ethanol. In addition, government programs supporting sugar prices
indirectly impact the price of corn sweeteners, especially high fructose
corn syrup.Our profitability may be affected by other factors beyond our control.
Our operating income and ability to increase profitability depend to 
a large extent upon our ability to price finished products at a level
that will cover manufacturing and raw material costs and provide an
acceptable profit margin. Our ability to maintain appropriate price
levels is determined by a number of factors largely beyond our control,
such as aggregate industry supply and market demand, which may
vary from time to time, and the economic conditions of the geographic
regions where we conduct our operations.
We operate in a highly competitive environment and it may be difficult
to preserve operating margins and maintain market share.
We operate in a highly competitive environment. Many of our products
compete with virtually identical or similar products manufactured by
other companies in the starch and sweetener industry. In the United
States, there are competitors, several of which are divisions of larger
enterprises that have greater financial resources than we do. Some 
of these competitors, unlike us, have vertically integrated their corn
refining and other operations. Many of our products also compete
with products made from raw materials other than corn. Fluctuation
in prices of these competing products may affect prices of, and profits derived from, our products. Competition in markets in which we
compete is largely based on price, quality and product availability.
Changes in consumer preferences and perceptions may lessen the demand
for our products, which could reduce our sales and profitability and
harm our business.
Food products are often affected by changes in consumer tastes,
national, regional and local economic conditions and demographic
trends. For instance, changes in prevailing health or dietary preferences
causing consumers to avoid food products containing sweetener
products, including high fructose corn syrup, in favor of foods that
are perceived as being more healthy, could reduce our sales and 
 profitability, and such a reduction could be material. Increasing 
concern among consumers, public health professionals and government agencies about the potential health concerns associated with
obesity and inactive lifestyles represent a significant challenge to
some of our customers, including those engaged in the food and 
soft drink industries.
The uncertainty of acceptance of products developed through 
biotechnology could affect our profitability The commercial success of agricultural products developed through
biotechnology, including genetically modified corn, depends in part
on public acceptance of their development, cultivation, distribution
and consumption. Public attitudes can be influenced by claims that
genetically modified products are unsafe for consumption or that
they pose unknown risks to the environment even if such claims are
not based on scientific studies. These public attitudes can influence
regulatory and legislative decisions about biotechnology even where
they are approved. The sale of the Company’s products which may
contain genetically modified corn could be delayed or impaired
because of adverse public perception regarding the safety of the
Company’s products and the potential effects of these products on
animals, human health and the environment.
Our profitability could be negatively impacted if we fail to maintain
satisfactory labor relations.
Approximately 35 percent of our US and 47 percent of our non-US
employees are members of unions. Strikes, lockouts or other work
stoppages or slow downs involving our unionized employees could
have a material adverse effect on us.
Our reliance on certain industries for a significant portion of our sales
could have a material adverse affect on our business.
Approximately 44 percent of our 2012 sales were made to companies
engaged in the food industry and approximately 15 percent were made
to companies in the beverage industry. Additionally, sales to the animal
nutrition market, the paper and corrugating industry, and the brewing
industry represented approximately 12 percent, 9 percent and 9 percent
of our 2012 net sales, respectively. If our food customers, beverage
customers, brewing industry customers, paper and corrugating customers or animal feed customers were to substantially decrease their
purchases, our business might be materially adversely affected. 
Natural disasters, war, acts and threats of terrorism, pandemic and
other significant events could negatively impact our business. 
If the economies of any countries where we sell or manufacture
products are affected by natural disasters such as earthquakes, floods
or severe weather; war, acts of war or terrorism; or the outbreak of 
a pandemic such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (“SARS”) or
the Avian Flu, it could result in asset write-offs, decreased sales and
overall reduced cash flows Government policies and regulations in general, and specifically 
affecting agriculture-related businesses, could adversely affect our
operating results.
Our operating results could be affected by changes in trade, monetary
and fiscal policies, laws and regulations, and other activities of United
States and foreign governments, agencies, and similar organizations.
These conditions include but are not limited to changes in a country’s
or region’s economic or political conditions, trade regulations affecting
production, pricing and marketing of products, local labor conditions
and regulations, reduced protection of intellectual property rights,
changes in the regulatory or legal environment, restrictions on currency
exchange activities, currency exchange fluctuations, burdensome
taxes and tariffs, and other trade barriers. International risks and
uncertainties, including changing social and economic conditions as
well as terrorism, political hostilities, and war, could limit our ability
to transact business in these markets and could adversely affect our
revenues and operating results.
Due to cross-border disputes, our operations could be adversely
affected by actions taken by the governments of countries where we
conduct business. 
The recognition of impairment charges on goodwill or long-lived assets
could adversely impact our future financial position and results of
operations.
We perform an annual impairment assessment for goodwill and our
indefinite-lived intangible assets, and as necessary, for other longlived assets. If the results of such assessments were to show that the
fair value of these such assets were less than the carrying values, we
could be required to recognize a charge for impairment of goodwill
and/or long-lived assets and the amount of the impairment charge
could be material. Our annual impairment assessment as of October 1,
2012 did not result in any additional impairment charges for the year. 
Even though it was determined that there was no additional 
long-lived asset impairment as of October 1, 2012, the future occurrence
of a potential indicator of impairment, such as a significant adverse
change in the business climate that would require a change in our
assumptions or strategic decisions made in response to economic or
competitive conditions, could require us to perform an assessment
prior to the next required assessment date of October 1, 2013. Changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities
could impact our profitability.
We are subject to income taxes in the United States and in various
other foreign jurisdictions. Our effective tax rates could be adversely
affected by changes in the mix of earnings by jurisdiction, changes in
tax laws or tax rates including potential tax reform in the US to broaden
the tax base and reduce deductions or credits, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and material adjustments
from tax audits.
In particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are
predominantly in the US, UK and Korea, is dependent upon our ability
to generate future taxable income in these jurisdictions. In addition,
the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in
various jurisdictions and a material assessment by a governing tax
authority could affect our profitability.
Operating difficulties at our manufacturing plants could adversely
affect our operating results.
Producing starches and sweeteners through corn refining is a capital
intensive industry. We have 36 plants and have preventive maintenance
and de-bottlenecking programs designed to maintain and improve
grind capacity and facility reliability. If we encounter operating difficulties at a plant for an extended period of time or start up problems
with any capital improvement projects, we may not be able to meet 
a portion of sales order commitments and could incur significantly
higher operating expenses, both of which could adversely affect our
operating results. We also use boilers to generate steam required in our
manufacturing processes. An event that impaired the operation of a
boiler for an extended period of time could have a significant adverse
effect on the operations of any plant where such event occurred.
We may not have access to the funds required for future growth 
and expansion.
We may need additional funds to grow and expand our operations.
We expect to fund our capital expenditures from operating cash flow
to the extent we are able to do so. If our operating cash flow is insufficient to fund our capital expenditures, we may either reduce our
capital expenditures or utilize our general credit facilities. For further strategic growth through mergers or acquisitions, we may also seek
to generate additional liquidity through the sale of debt or equity
securities in private or public markets or through the sale of nonproductive assets. We cannot provide any assurance that our cash
flows from operations will be sufficient to fund anticipated capital
expenditures or that we will be able to obtain additional funds from
financial markets or from the sale of assets at terms favorable to us.
If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows or raise sufficient
additional funds to cover our capital expenditures or other strategic
growth opportunities, we may not be able to achieve our desired
operating efficiencies and expansion plans, which may adversely
impact our competitiveness and, therefore, our results of operations.
We may not successfully identify and complete acquisitions or strategic
alliances on favorable terms or achieve anticipated synergies relating
to any acquisitions or alliances, and such acquisitions could result in
unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and require significant management resources.
We regularly review potential acquisitions of complementary 
businesses, technologies, services or products, as well as potential
strategic alliances. We may be unable to find suitable acquisition 
candidates or appropriate partners with which to form partnerships
or strategic alliances. Even if we identify appropriate acquisition or
alliance candidates, we may be unable to complete such acquisitions
or alliances on favorable terms, if at all. In addition, the process of
integrating an acquired business, technology, service or product 
into our existing business and operations may result in unforeseen
operating difficulties and expenditures. Integration of an acquired
company also may require significant management resources that
otherwise would be available for ongoing development of our business. Moreover, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of any
acquisition or strategic alliance, and such transactions may not generate anticipated financial results. Future acquisitions could also
require us to issue equity securities, incur debt, assume contingent
liabilities or amortize expenses related to intangible assets, any of
which could harm our business.
An inability to contain costs could adversely affect our future 
profitability and growth. Our future profitability and growth depends on our ability to contain
operating costs and per-unit product costs and to maintain and/or
implement effective cost control programs, while at the same time
maintaining competitive pricing and superior quality products, customer service and support. Our ability to maintain a competitive 
cost structure depends on continued containment of manufacturing,
delivery and administrative costs, as well as the implementation of
cost-effective purchasing programs for raw materials, energy and
related manufacturing requirements.
If we are unable to contain our operating costs and maintain the
productivity and reliability of our production facilities, our profitability
and growth could be adversely affected.
Volatility in the stock market, fluctuations in quarterly operating
results and other factors could adversely affect the market price of 
our common stock.
The market price for our common stock may be significantly affected
by factors such as our announcement of new products or services or
such announcements by our competitors; technological innovation 
by us, our competitors or other vendors; quarterly variations in our
operating results or the operating results of our competitors; general
conditions in our or our customers’ markets; and changes in the
earnings estimates by analysts or reported results that vary materially
from such estimates. In addition, the stock market has experienced
significant price fluctuations that have affected the market prices of
equity securities of many companies that have been unrelated to 
the operating performance of any individual company.
No assurance can be given that we will continue to pay dividends.
The payment of dividends is at the discretion of our Board of Directors
and will be subject to our financial results and the availability of surplus
funds to pay dividends