In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this
Report, the following risks and uncertainties could
materially adversely affect our business, financial
condition and results of operations. Additional risks
and uncertainties not presently known to us or that
we currently deem immaterial also may impair our
business operations and financial condition.
Our results may be materially and adversely impacted
as a result of increases in the price of raw materials,
including agricultural commodities, fuel and labor.
Agricultural commodities, including corn, wheat,
soybean oil, sugar and cocoa, are the principal raw
materials used in our products. Cartonboard,
corrugated, and plastic are the principal packaging
materials used by us. The cost of such commodities
may fluctuate widely due to government policy and
regulation, weather conditions, climate change or
other unforeseen circumstances. To the extent that
any of the foregoing factors affect the prices of such
commodities and we are unable to increase our prices
or adequately hedge against such changes in prices in
a manner that offsets such changes, the results of our
operations could be materially and adversely affected.
In addition, we use derivatives to hedge price risk
associated with forecasted purchases of raw materials.
Our hedged price could exceed the spot price on the
date of purchase, resulting in an unfavorable impact
on both gross margin and net earnings.
Cereal processing ovens at major domestic and
international facilities are regularly fueled by natural
gas or propane, which are obtained from local utilities
or other local suppliers. Short-term stand-by propane
storage exists at several plants for use in case of
interruption in natural gas supplies. Oil may also be
used to fuel certain operations at various plants. In
addition, considerable amounts of diesel fuel are used
in connection with the distribution of our products.
The cost of fuel may fluctuate widely due to economic
and political conditions, government policy and
regulation, war, or other unforeseen circumstances
which could have a material adverse effect on our
consolidated operating results or financial condition.
A shortage in the labor pool or other general
inflationary pressures or changes in applicable laws
and regulations could increase labor cost, which could
have a material adverse effect on our consolidated
operating results or financial condition.
Additionally, our labor costs include the cost of
providing benefits for employees. We sponsor a
number of defined benefit plans for employees in the
United States and various foreign locations, including
pension, retiree health and welfare, active health care,
severance and other postemployment benefits. We
also participate in a number of multiemployer pension
plans for certain of our manufacturing locations. Our
major pension plans and U.S. retiree health and
welfare plans are funded with trust assets invested in
a globally diversified portfolio of equity securities with
smaller holdings of bonds, real estate and other
investments. The annual cost of benefits can vary
significantly from year to year and is materially
affected by such factors as changes in the assumed or
actual rate of return on major plan assets, a change in
the weighted-average discount rate used to measure
obligations, the rate or trend of health care cost
inflation, and the outcome of collectively-bargained
wage and benefit agreements.
Our operations face significant foreign currency
exchange rate exposure and currency restrictions
which could negatively impact our operating results.
We hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenue and
pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the
U.S. dollar, including the euro, British pound,
Australian dollar, Canadian dollar, Mexican peso,
Venezuelan bolivar fuerte and Russian ruble. Because
our consolidated financial statements are presented in
U.S. dollars, we must translate our assets, liabilities,
revenue and expenses into U.S. dollars at thenapplicable exchange rates. Consequently, changes in
the value of the U.S. dollar may unpredictably and
negatively affect the value of these items in our
consolidated financial statements, even if their value
has not changed in their original currency.
If our food products become adulterated, misbranded
or mislabeled, we might need to recall those items
and may experience product liability if consumers are
injured as a result.
Selling food products involves a number of legal and
other risks, including product contamination, spoilage,
product tampering, allergens, or other adulteration.
We may need to recall some of our products if they
become adulterated or misbranded. We may also be
liable if the consumption of any of our products
causes injury, illness or death. A widespread product
recall or market withdrawal could result in significant
losses due to their costs, the destruction of product
inventory, and lost sales due to the unavailability of
product for a period of time. For example, in October
2012, we initiated a recall of certain packages of
Mini-Wheats cereal due to the possible presence of
fragments of flexible metal mesh from a faulty
manufacturing part. We could also suffer losses from
a significant product liability judgment against us. A
significant product recall or product liability case could
also result in adverse publicity, damage to our
reputation, and a loss of consumer confidence in our
food products, which could have a material adverse
effect on our business results and the value of our
brands. Moreover, even if a product liability or
consumer fraud claim is meritless, does not prevail or
is not pursued, the negative publicity surrounding
assertions against our company and our products or
processes could adversely affect our reputation or
brands.
We could also be adversely affected if consumers lose
confidence in the safety and quality of certain food
products or ingredients, or the food safety system
generally. Adverse publicity about these types of
concerns, whether or not valid, may discourage
consumers from buying our products or cause
production and delivery disruptions.
Disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse
effect on our business, financial condition and results
of operations.
Our ability, including manufacturing or distribution
capabilities, and that of our suppliers, business
partners and contract manufacturers, to make, move
and sell products is critical to our success. Damage or
disruption to our or their manufacturing or
distribution capabilities due to weather, including any
potential effects of climate change, natural disaster,
fire or explosion, terrorism, pandemics, strikes, repairs
or enhancements at our facilities, or other reasons,
could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our
products. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate
the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to
effectively manage such events if they occur, could
adversely affect our business, financial condition and
results of operations, as well as require additional
resources to restore our supply chain.
Evolving tax, environmental, food quality and safety or
other regulations or failure to comply with existing
licensing, labeling, trade, food quality and safety and
other regulations and laws could have a material
adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition.
Our activities, both in and outside of the United
States, are subject to regulation by various federal,
state, provincial and local laws, regulations and
government agencies, including the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration, U.S. Federal Trade Commission,
the U.S. Departments of Agriculture, Commerce and
Labor, as well as similar and other authorities of the
European Union, International Accords and Treaties
and others, including voluntary regulation by other
bodies. The manufacturing, marketing and distribution
of food products are subject to governmental
regulation that impose additional regulatory
requirements. Those regulations control such matters
as food quality and safety, ingredients, advertising,
labeling, relations with distributors and retailers,
health and safety and the environment. We are also
regulated with respect to matters such as licensing
requirements, trade and pricing practices, tax and
environmental matters. The need to comply with new
or revised tax, environmental, food quality and safety
or other laws or regulations, or new or changed
interpretations or enforcement of existing laws or
regulations, may have a material adverse effect on our
business and results of operations. Further, if we are
found to be out of compliance with applicable laws
and regulations in these areas, we could be subject to
civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, termination
of necessary licenses or permits, or recalls, as well as
potential criminal sanctions, any of which could have a
material adverse effect on our business. Even if
regulatory review does not result in these types of
determinations, it could potentially create negative
publicity which could harm our business or reputation.
If we pursue strategic acquisitions, alliances,
divestitures or joint ventures, we may not be able to
successfully consummate favorable transactions or
successfully integrate acquired businesses.
From time to time, we may evaluate potential
acquisitions, alliances, divestitures or joint ventures
that would further our strategic objectives. With
respect to acquisitions, we may not be able to identify
suitable candidates, consummate a transaction on
terms that are favorable to us, or achieve expected
returns and other benefits as a result of integration
challenges. With respect to proposed divestitures of
assets or businesses, we may encounter difficulty in
finding acquirers or alternative exit strategies on terms
that are favorable to us, which could delay the
accomplishment of our strategic objectives, or our
divestiture activities may require us to recognize
impairment charges. Companies or operations
acquired or joint ventures created may not be
profitable or may not achieve sales levels and
profitability that justify the investments made. Our
corporate development activities may present financial
and operational risks, including diversion of
management attention from existing core businesses,
integrating or separating personnel and financial and
other systems, and adverse effects on existing business
relationships with suppliers and customers. Future
acquisitions could also result in potentially dilutive
issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt,
contingent liabilities and/or amortization expenses
related to certain intangible assets and increased
operating expenses, which could adversely affect our
results of operations and financial condition.
Tax matters, including changes in tax rates,
disagreements with taxing authorities and imposition
of new taxes could impact our results of operations
and financial condition.
Our profits earned outside the U.S. are generally taxed
at lower rates than the U.S. statutory rates. The cash
we generate outside the U.S. is principally to be used
to fund our international development. If the funds
generated by our U.S. business are not sufficient to
meet our need for cash in the U.S., we may need to
repatriate a portion of our future international
earnings to the U.S. Such international earnings would
be subject to U.S. tax which could cause our
worldwide effective tax rate to increase
We are subject to income taxes as well as non-income
based taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added,
net worth, property, withholding and franchise taxes
in both the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions. We
are also subject to regular reviews, examinations and
audits by the Internal Revenue Service and other
taxing authorities with respect to such income and
non-income based taxes inside and outside of the U.S.
Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable,
if a taxing authority disagrees with the positions we
have taken, we could face additional tax liability,
including interest and penalties. There can be no
assurance that payment of such additional amounts
upon final adjudication of any disputes will not have a
material impact on our results of operations and
financial position.
The enactment of or increases in tariffs, including
value added tax, or other changes in the application of
existing taxes, in markets in which we are currently
active or may be active in the future, or on specific
products that we sell or with which our products
compete, may have an adverse effect on our business
or on our results of operations.
We may not be able to fully realize the anticipated
benefits and synergies of the Pringles acquisition or in
the expected time frame.
The overall success of the Pringles acquisition will
depend, in part, on our ability to realize the
anticipated benefits and synergies from combining
and integrating the Pringles business into our existing
business. We may not be able to fully achieve these
objectives, or may not be able to achieve these
objectives on a timely basis, and the anticipated future
benefits and synergies therefore may not be realized
fully or at all. We may also incur unanticipated costs.
The acquisition involves challenges and risks, including
risks that the transaction does not advance our
business strategy or that we will not realize a
satisfactory return. Any integration difficulties could
decrease or eliminate the anticipated benefits and
synergies of the Pringles acquisition and could
negatively affect the trading prices of our stock and
our future business and financial results.
Our consolidated financial results and demand for our
products are dependent on the successful
development of new products and processes.
There are a number of trends in consumer preferences
which may impact us and the industry as a whole.
These include changing consumer dietary trends and
the availability of substitute products.
Our success is dependent on anticipating changes in
consumer preferences and on successful new product
and process development and product relaunches in
response to such changes. We aim to introduce
products or new or improved production processes on
a timely basis in order to counteract obsolescence and
decreases in sales of existing products. While we
devote significant focus to the development of new
products and to the research, development and
technology process functions of our business, we may
not be successful in developing new products or our
new products may not be commercially successful.
Our future results and our ability to maintain or
improve our competitive position will depend on our
capacity to gauge the direction of our key markets
and upon our ability to successfully identify, develop,
manufacture, market and sell new or improved
products in these changing markets.
We operate in the highly competitive food industry.
We face competition across our product lines,
including ready-to-eat cereals and convenience foods,
from other companies which have varying abilities to
withstand changes in market conditions. Most of our
competitors have substantial financial, marketing and
other resources, and competition with them in our
various markets and product lines could cause us to
reduce prices, increase capital, marketing or other
expenditures, or lose category share, any of which
could have a material adverse effect on our business
and financial results. Category share and growth could
also be adversely impacted if we are not successful in
introducing new products.
Potential liabilities and costs from litigation could
adversely affect our business.
There is no guarantee that we will be successful in
defending our self in civil, criminal or regulatory
actions, including under general, commercial,
employment, environmental, food quality and safety,
anti-trust and trade, and environmental laws and
regulations, or in asserting its rights under various
laws. In addition, we could incur substantial costs and
fees in defending our self or in asserting our rights in
these actions or meeting new legal requirements. The
costs and other effects of potential and pending
litigation and administrative actions against us, and
new legal requirements, cannot be determined with
certainty and may differ from expectations.
We have a substantial amount of indebtedness.
We have indebtedness that is substantial in relation to
our shareholders’ equity. As of December 29, 2012,
we had total debt of approximately $7.9 billion and
total Kellogg Company equity of $2.4 billion.
Our substantial indebtedness could have important
consequences, including:
• impairing the ability to access global capital
markets to obtain additional financing for working
capital, capital expenditures or general corporate
purposes, particularly if the ratings assigned to our
debt securities by rating organizations were revised
downward or if a rating organization announces
that our ratings are under review for a potential
downgrade;
• A downgrade in our credit ratings, particularly our
short-term credit rating, would likely reduce the
amount of commercial paper we could issue,
increase our commercial paper borrowing costs, or
both;
• restricting our flexibility in responding to changing
market conditions or making us more vulnerable in
the event of a general downturn in economic
conditions or our business;
• requiring a substantial portion of the cash flow
from operations to be dedicated to the payment of
principal and interest on our debt, reducing the
funds available to us for other purposes such as
expansion through acquisitions, paying dividends,
repurchasing shares, marketing spending and
expansion of our product offerings; and
• causing us to be more leveraged than some of our
competitors, which may place us at a competitive
disadvantage.
Our ability to make scheduled payments or to
refinance our obligations with respect to indebtedness
will depend on our financial and operating
performance, which in turn, is subject to prevailing
economic conditions, the availability of, and interest
rates on, short-term financing, and financial, business
and other factors beyond our control.
Our performance is affected by general economic and
political conditions and taxation policies.
Customer and consumer demand for our products
may be impacted by recession, financial and credit
market disruptions, or other economic downturns in
the United States or other nations. Our results in the
past have been, and in the future may continue to be,
materially affected by changes in general economic
and political conditions in the United States and other
countries, including the interest rate environment in
which we conduct business, the financial markets
through which we access capital and currency,
political unrest and terrorist acts in the United States
or other countries in which we carry on business.
Current economic conditions globally, particularly in
Europe may delay or reduce purchases by our
customers and consumers. This could result in
reductions in sales of our products, reduced
acceptance of innovations, and increased price
competition. Deterioration in economic conditions in
any of the countries in which we do business could
also cause slower collections on accounts receivable
which may adversely impact our liquidity and financial
condition. Financial institutions may be negatively
impacted by economic conditions and may consolidate
or cease to do business which could result in a
tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity
in many financial markets, and increased volatility in
fixed income, credit, currency and equity
markets. There could be a number of effects from a
financial institution credit crisis on our business, which
could include impaired credit availability and financial
stability of our customers, including our suppliers, comanufacturers and distributors. A disruption in
financial markets may also have an effect on our
derivative counterparties and could also impair our
banking partners on which we rely for operating cash
management. Any of these events would likely harm
our business, results of operations and financial
condition.
We may be unable to maintain our profit margins in
the face of a consolidating retail environment. In
addition, the loss of one of our largest customers
could negatively impact our sales and profits.
Our largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its
affiliates, accounted for approximately 20% of
consolidated net sales during 2012, comprised
principally of sales within the United States. At
December 29, 2012, approximately 18% of our
consolidated receivables balance and 26% of our
U.S. receivables balance was comprised of amounts
owed by Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates. No
other customer accounted for greater than 10% of
net sales in 2012. During 2012, our top five
customers, collectively, including Wal-Mart, accounted
for approximately 33% of our consolidated net sales
and approximately 45% of U.S. net sales. As the retail
grocery trade continues to consolidate and mass
marketers become larger, our large retail customers
may seek to use their position to improve their
profitability through improved efficiency, lower pricing
and increased promotional programs. If we are unable
to use our scale, marketing expertise, product
innovation and category leadership positions to
respond, our profitability or volume growth could be
negatively affected. The loss of any large customer for
an extended length of time could negatively impact
our sales and profits.
An impairment of the carrying value of goodwill or
other acquired intangibles could negatively affect our
consolidated operating results and net worth.
The carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value
of acquired businesses in excess of identifiable assets
and liabilities as of the acquisition date. The carrying
value of other intangibles represents the fair value of
trademarks, trade names, and other acquired
intangibles as of the acquisition date. Goodwill and
other acquired intangibles expected to contribute
indefinitely to our cash flows are not amortized, but
must be evaluated by management at least annually
for impairment. If carrying value exceeds current fair
value, the intangible is considered impaired and is
reduced to fair value via a charge to earnings. Events
and conditions which could result in an impairment
include changes in the industries in which we operate,
including competition and advances in technology; a
significant product liability or intellectual property
claim; or other factors leading to reduction in
expected sales or profitability. Should the value of one
or more of the acquired intangibles become impaired,
our consolidated earnings and net worth may be
materially adversely affected.
As of December 29, 2012, the carrying value of
intangible assets totaled approximately $7.4 billion, of
which $5.0 billion was goodwill and $2.4 billion
represented trademarks, tradenames, and other
acquired intangibles compared to total assets of
$15.2 billion and total Kellogg Company equity of
$2.4 billion.
Our postretirement benefit-related costs and funding
requirements could increase as a result of volatility in
the financial markets, changes in interest rates and
actuarial assumptions.
Increases in the costs of postretirement medical and
pension benefits may continue and negatively affect
our business as a result of increased usage of medical
benefits by retired employees and medical cost
inflation, the effect of potential declines in the stock
and bond markets on the performance of our pension
and post-retirement plan assets, potential reductions
in the discount rate used to determine the present
value of our benefit obligations, and changes to our
investment strategy that may impact our expected
return on pension and post-retirement plan assets
assumptions. U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles require that we calculate income or expense
for the plans using actuarial valuations. These
valuations reflect assumptions about financial markets
and interest rates, which may change based on
economic conditions. The Company’s accounting
policy for defined benefit plans may subject earnings
to volatility due to the recognition of actuarial gains
and losses, particularly those due to the change in the
fair value of pension and post-retirement plan assets
and interest rates. In addition, funding requirements
for our plans may become more significant. However,
the ultimate amounts to be contributed are
dependent upon, among other things, interest rates,
underlying asset returns, and the impact of legislative
or regulatory changes related to pension and postretirement funding obligations.
Multiemployer Pension Plans could adversely affect our
business.
We participate in various “multiemployer” pension
plans administered by labor unions representing some
of our employees. We make periodic contributions to
these plans to allow them to meet their pension
benefit obligations to their participants. Our required
contributions to these funds could increase because of
a shrinking contribution base as a result of the
insolvency or withdrawal of other companies that
currently contribute to these funds, inability or failure
of withdrawing companies to pay their withdrawal
liability, lower than expected returns on pension fund
assets or other funding deficiencies. In the event that
we withdraw from participation in one of these plans,
then applicable law could require us to make an
additional lump-sum contribution to the plan, and we
would have to reflect that as an expense in our
consolidated statement of operations and as a liability
on our consolidated balance sheet. Our withdrawal
liability for any multiemployer plan would depend on
the extent of the plan’s funding of vested benefits. In
the ordinary course of our renegotiation of collective
bargaining agreements with labor unions that
maintain these plans, we may decide to discontinue
participation in a plan, and in that event, we could
face a withdrawal liability. Some multiemployer plans
in which we participate are reported to have
significant underfunded liabilities. Such underfunding
could increase the size of our potential withdrawal
liability.
Economic downturns could limit consumer demand
for our products.
Retailers are increasingly offering private label
products that compete with our products. Consumers’
willingness to purchase our products will depend upon
our ability to offer products that appeal to consumers
at the right price. It is also important that our products
are perceived to be of a higher quality than less
expensive alternatives. If the difference in quality
between our products and those of store brands
narrows, or if such difference in quality is perceived to
have narrowed, then consumers may not buy our
products. Furthermore, during periods of economic
uncertainty, consumers tend to purchase more private
label or other economy brands, which could reduce
sales volumes of our higher margin products or there
could be a shift in our product mix to our lower
margin offerings. If we are not able to maintain or
improve our brand image, it could have a material
effect on our market share and our profitability.
We may not achieve our targeted cost savings and
efficiencies from cost reduction initiatives.
Our success depends in part on our ability to be an
efficient producer in a highly competitive industry. We
have invested a significant amount in capital
expenditures to improve our operational facilities.
Ongoing operational issues are likely to occur when
carrying out major production, procurement, or
logistical changes and these, as well as any failure by
us to achieve our planned cost savings and
efficiencies, could have a material adverse effect on
our business and consolidated financial position and
on the consolidated results of our operations and
profitability.
Technology failures could disrupt our operations and
negatively impact our business.
We increasingly rely on information technology
systems to process, transmit, and store electronic
information. For example, our production and
distribution facilities and inventory management utilize
information technology to increase efficiencies and
limit costs. Furthermore, a significant portion of the
communications between our personnel, customers,
and suppliers depends on information technology. Our
information technology systems may be vulnerable to
a variety of interruptions, as a result of updating our
SAP platform or due to events beyond our control,
including, but not limited to, natural disasters, terrorist
attacks, telecommunications failures, computer
viruses, hackers, and other security issues. Moreover,
our computer systems have been, and will likely
continue to be subjected to computer viruses or other
malicious codes, unauthorized access attempts, and
cyber- or phishing-attacks. These events could
compromise our confidential information, impede or
interrupt our business operations, and may result in
other negative consequences, including remediation
costs, loss of revenue, litigation and reputational
damage. To date, we have not experienced a material
breach of cybersecurity. While we have implemented
administrative and technical controls and taken other
preventive actions to reduce the risk of cyber incidents
and protect our information technology, they may be
insufficient to prevent physical and electronic breakins, cyber-attacks or other security breaches to our
computer systems.
Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any
inability to protect them could reduce the value of our
products and brands.
We consider our intellectual property rights,
particularly and most notably our trademarks, but also
including patents, trade secrets, copyrights and
licensing agreements, to be a significant and valuable
aspect of our business. We attempt to protect our
intellectual property rights through a combination of
patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as
well as licensing agreements, third party nondisclosure
and assignment agreements and policing of third
party misuses of our intellectual property. Our failure
to obtain or adequately protect our trademarks,
products, new features of our products, or our
technology, or any change in law or other changes
that serve to lessen or remove the current legal
protections of our intellectual property, may diminish
our competitiveness and could materially harm our
business.
We may be unaware of intellectual property rights of
others that may cover some of our technology, brands
or products. Any litigation regarding patents or other
intellectual property could be costly and timeconsuming and could divert the attention of our
management and key personnel from our business
operations. Third party claims of intellectual property
infringement might also require us to enter into costly
license agreements. We also may be subject to
significant damages or injunctions against
development and sale of certain products.
Our results may be negatively impacted if consumers
do not maintain their favorable perception of our
brands.
We have a number of iconic brands with significant
value. Maintaining and continually enhancing the
value of these brands is critical to the success of our
business. Brand value is based in large part on
consumer perceptions. Success in promoting and
enhancing brand value depends in large part on our
ability to provide high-quality products. Brand value
could diminish significantly due to a number of
factors, including consumer perception that we have
acted in an irresponsible manner, adverse publicity
about our products (whether or not valid), our failure
to maintain the quality of our products, the failure of
our products to deliver consistently positive consumer
experiences, or the products becoming unavailable to
consumers. The growing use of social and digital
media by consumers, Kellogg and third parties
increases the speed and extent that information or
misinformation and opinions can be shared. Negative
posts or comments about Kellogg, our brands or our
products on social or digital media could seriously
damage our brands and reputation. If we do not
maintain the favorable perception of our brands, our
results could be negatively impacted

