An investment in our ordinary shares carries a significant degree of risk. You should carefully
consider the following risks and other information in this annual report, including our consolidated financial statements and
related notes included elsewhere in this annual report, before you decide to purchase our ordinary shares. Additional risks
and uncertainties of which we are not presently aware or that we currently deem immaterial could also affect our business
operations and financial condition. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of
operations or prospects could be materially affected. As a result, the trading price of our ordinary shares could decline and
you could lose part or all of your investment.
Risks Related to Our Business and Industry
We operate in a highly competitive market and our failure to compete effectively could adversely affect our
results of operations.
The market for frozen food is highly competitive, and further consolidation in the industry would
likely increase competition. Our competitors include retailers who promote private label products and well-established
branded producers that operate on both a national and an international basis across single or multiple frozen food
categories. We also face competition more generally from chilled food, distributors and retailers of fresh products, baked
goods and ready-made meals. Our competitors generally compete with us on the basis of price, actual or perceived
quality of products, brand recognition, consumer loyalty, product variety, new product development, customer service and
improvements to existing products. We may not successfully compete with our existing competitors and new competitors
may enter the market. Discounters are supermarket retailers which offer a narrow range of food and grocery products at
discounted prices and which typically focus on non-branded rather than branded products. The increase in discounter
sales may adversely affect the sales of our branded products. Further, we are increasing our investment in online sales
(sales made through retailers’ online platforms). However, there is no guarantee we will achieve our expected return on
investment from this strategy. The growth of online retailers, and the corresponding growth in our online sales, may also
adversely affect our competitive position.
In addition, we cannot predict the pricing or promotional actions of our competitors or their effect on
consumer perceptions or the success of our own advertising and promotional efforts. Our competitors develop and launch
products targeted to compete directly with our products. Our retail customers, most of which promote their own private
label products, control the shelf space allocations within their stores. As a result, they may allocate more shelf space to
private label products or to our branded competitors’ products in accordance with their respective promotional strategies.
Decreases in shelf space allocated to our products, increases in competitor promotional activity, aggressive marketing
strategies by competitors or other factors may require us to reduce our prices or invest greater amounts in advertising and
promotion of our products to ensure our products remain competitive.
Furthermore, some of our competitors may have substantially greater financial, marketing and other
resources than we have. This creates competitive pressures that could cause us to lose market share or require us to
lower prices, increase advertising expenditures or increase the use of discounting or promotional campaigns. These
competitive factors may also restrict our ability to increase prices, including in response to commodity and other cost
increases. If we are unable to continue to respond effectively to these and other competitive pressures, our customers
may reduce orders of our products, may insist on prices that erode our margins or may allocate less shelf space and
fewer displays for our products. These or other developments could materially and adversely affect our sales volumes and
margins and result in a decrease in our operating results, which could have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition and results of operations.
Nomad Foods Annual Report 2018 13Sales of our products are subject to changing consumer preferences and trends; if we do not correctly anticipate
such changes, our sales and profitability may decline.
There are a number of trends in consumer preferences which have an impact on us and the frozen
food industry as a whole. These include, among others, preferences for speed, convenience and ease of food
preparation; natural, nutritious and well-proportioned meals; and products that are sustainably sourced and produced and
are otherwise environmentally friendly. Concerns as to the health impacts and nutritional value of certain foods may
increasingly result in food producers being encouraged or required to produce products with reduced levels of salt, sugar
and fat and to eliminate trans-fatty acids and certain other ingredients. Consumer preferences are also shaped by concern
over waste reduction and the environmental impact of products. The success of our business depends on both the
continued appeal of our products and, given the varied backgrounds and tastes of our customer base, our ability to offer a
sufficient range of products to satisfy a broad spectrum of preferences. Any shift in consumer preferences in the UK,
Germany, France, Italy, Sweden or any other material market in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on
our business. Consumer tastes are also susceptible to change. In addition, consumers with increasingly busy lifestyles
are choosing the online grocery channel as a more convenient and faster way of purchasing their food products, and are
also increasingly using the internet for meal ideas. Our competitiveness therefore depends on our ability to predict and
quickly adapt to consumer preferences and trends, exploiting profitable opportunities for product development without
alienating our existing consumer base or focusing excessive resources or attention on unprofitable or short-lived trends.
All of these efforts require significant research and development and marketing investments. If we are unable to respond
on a timely and appropriate basis to changes in demand or consumer preferences and trends, our sales volumes and
margins could be adversely affected.
Our future results and competitive position are dependent on the successful development of new products and
improvement of existing products, which is subject to a number of difficulties and uncertainties.
Our future results and ability to maintain or improve our competitive position depend on our
capacity to anticipate changes in our key markets and to successfully identify, develop, manufacture, market and sell new
or improved products in these changing markets. We aim to introduce new products and re-launch and extend existing
product lines on a timely basis in order to counteract obsolescence and decreases in sales of existing products as well as
to increase overall sales of our products. The launch and success of new or modified products are inherently uncertain,
especially as to the products’ appeal to consumers, and there can be no assurance as to our continuing ability to develop
and launch successful new products or variations of existing products. The failure to launch a product successfully can
give rise to inventory write-offs and other costs and can affect consumer perception of our other products. Market factors
and the need to develop and provide modified or alternative products may also increase costs. In addition, launching new
or modified products can result in cannibalization of sales of our existing products if consumers purchase the new product
in place of our existing products. If we are unsuccessful in developing new products in response to changing consumer
demands or preferences in an efficient and economical manner, or if our competitors respond more effectively than we do,
demand for our products may decrease, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and
results of operations.
The nature of the exit of the UK from the EU could adversely impact our business, results of operations and
financial condition.
On June 23, 2016 the UK electorate voted in favor of leaving the European Union (commonly referred to
as “Brexit”), and on March 29, 2017 the UK government formally initiated the withdrawal process. The terms of any
withdrawal are subject to a negotiation period that could last at least two years, or longer, if the European Council
unanimously agrees to extend the negotiation period. Without any such extension or agreement on the term of the UK's
withdrawal from the EU, the UK's membership in the EU will end automatically on March 29, 2019, the expiration of the
two-year period. On January 15, 2019, the draft Withdrawal Agreement was rejected by the UK parliament creating
significant uncertainty about the terms and timing under which the UK will leave the EU. This continues to create political
and economic uncertainty, which has affected, and may continue to affect, market and macro-economic conditions in both
the UK and EU economies. Current discussions may result in any number of outcomes, the consequences of which are
unpredictable, including an extension or delay of the UK's withdrawal from the EU. 
14 Nomad Foods Annual Report 2018For the year ended December 31, 2018, 94% of our revenue was derived from the EU as a whole and
27% was derived from the UK, which increased from the prior year due to the acquisitions of Goodfella's and Aunt
Bessie's. In addition, we have manufacturing facilities and employees in both the UK and other European countries. As a
result of Brexit, we may experience adverse impacts on consumer demand and profitability in the UK and other markets.
Depending on the terms of Brexit, the UK could also lose access to the single EU market, or specific countries in the EU,
resulting in a negative impact on the general and economic conditions in the UK and the EU. Changes may occur in
regulations that we are required to comply with as well as amendments to treaties governing tax, duties, tariffs, etc. which
could adversely impact our operations and require us to modify our financial and supply arrangements. For example, the
imposition of any import restrictions and duties levied on our products may make our products more expensive and less
competitive from a pricing perspective. To avoid such impacts, we may have to restructure or relocate some or all of our
operations which would be costly and negatively impact our profitability and cash flow. 
Additionally, political instability in the European Union as a result of Brexit may result in a material
negative effect on credit markets, currency exchange rates and foreign direct investments in the EU and UK. This
deterioration in economic conditions could result in increased unemployment rates, increased short and long term interest
rates, adverse movements in exchange rates, consumer and commercial bankruptcy filings, a decline in the strength of
national and local economies, and other results that negatively impact household incomes. Further, a number of our
employees in the UK are not UK citizens and, depending on the terms negotiated, may no longer have the right to work in
the UK following the UK’s formal withdrawal from the EU. 
Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
of operations.
We are exposed to economic and other trends that could adversely impact our operations in our key
geographies.
We conduct operations in our key markets of the UK, Italy, Germany, Sweden, France, and Norway,
from which approximately 81% of our revenue was generated during the year ended December 31, 2018. We are
particularly influenced by economic developments and changes in consumer habits in those countries.
The geographic markets in which we compete have been affected by negative macroeconomic
trends which have affected consumer confidence. For example, Brexit has created political and economic uncertainty both
in the UK and the other EU member states. A deterioration in economic conditions could result in increased
unemployment rates, increased short and long term interest rates, consumer and commercial bankruptcy filings, a decline
in the strength of national and local economies, and other results that negatively impact household incomes. This can
result in consumers purchasing cheaper private label products instead of equivalent branded products. Such
macroeconomic trends could, among other things, negatively impact global demand for branded and premium food
products, which could result in a reduction of sales or pressure on margins of our branded products or cause an
increasing transfer to lower priced product categories.
Our inability to source raw materials or other inputs of an acceptable type or quality, could adversely affect our
results of operations.
We use significant quantities of food ingredients and packaging materials and are therefore
vulnerable to fluctuations in the availability and price of food ingredients, packaging materials, other supplies and energy
costs. In particular, raw materials such as fish, livestock and crops have historically represented a significant portion of our
cost of sales, and accordingly, adverse changes in raw material prices can impact our results of operations.
Specifically, the availability and the price of fish, vegetables and other agricultural commodities,
including poultry and meat, can be volatile. We are also affected by the availability of quality raw materials, most notably
fish, which can be impacted by the fishing and agricultural policies of the European Union including national or
international quotas that can limit volume of raw materials. General economic conditions, unanticipated demand, problems
in manufacturing or distribution, natural disasters, weather conditions during the growing and harvesting seasons, plant,
fish and livestock diseases and local, the impact of Brexit, national or international quarantines can also adversely affect
availability and prices of commodities in the long and short term. 
While we attempt to negotiate fixed prices for certain materials with our suppliers for periods
ranging from one month to a full year, we cannot guarantee that our strategy will be successful in managing input costs if
prices increase for extended periods of time. Additionally, by entering fixed price agreements we may potentially be
limiting our ability to benefit from possible price decreases. Moreover, there is no market for hedging against price volatility
for certain raw materials and accordingly such materials are bought at the spot rate in the market.
Nomad Foods Annual Report 2018 15Our ability to avoid the adverse effects of a pronounced, sustained price increase in raw materials
is limited. Any increases in prices or scarcity of ingredients or packaging materials required for our products could
increase our costs and disrupt our operations. If the availability of any of our inputs is constrained for any reason, we may
not be able to obtain sufficient supplies or supplies of a suitable quality on favorable terms or at all. Such shortages could
materially adversely affect our market share, business, financial condition and results of operations.
Our inability to pass on price increases for materials or other inputs to our customers could adversely affect our
results of operations.
Our ability to pass through increases in the prices of raw materials to our customers depends,
among others, on prevailing competitive conditions and pricing methods in the markets in which we operate, and we may
not be able to pass through such price increases to our customers. Even if we are able to pass through increases in
prices, there is typically a time lag between cost increases impacting our business and implementation of product price
increases during which time our profit margin may be negatively impacted. Recovery of cost inflation, driven by both
commodity cost increases or changes in the foreign exchange rate of the currency the commodity is denominated in, can
also lead to disparities in retailers’ shelf-prices between different brands which can result in a competitive disadvantage
and volume decline. During our negotiations to increase our prices to recover cost increases, customers may take actions
which exacerbate the impact of such cost increases, for example by ceasing to offer our products or deferring orders until
negotiations have ended. Our inability to pass through price increases in raw materials and preserve our profit margins in
the future could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
We rely on sales to a limited number of large food retailers and should they perform poorly or give higher priority
to private label or other brands or products or if the concentration and buying power of these large retailers
increase, our business could be adversely affected.
Our customers include supermarkets and large chain food retailers in the UK, Germany, France,
Italy, Sweden and Norway. Throughout our markets, the food retail segments are highly concentrated. For the year ended
December 31, 2018, our top 10 customers account for 42% of sales. In recent years, the major multiple retailers in those
countries have increased their share of the grocery market and price competition between retailers has intensified. This
price competition has led the major multiple retailers to seek lower prices from their suppliers, including us. The strength
of the major multiple retailers’ bargaining position gives them significant leverage over their suppliers in negotiating
pricing, product specification and the level of supplier participation in promotional campaigns and offers, which can reduce
our margins. International alliances among retailers continue to become stronger, and the trend for consolidation in
Europe at a local level and across borders is ongoing. Further consolidation among the major multiple retailers or
disproportionate growth in relation to their competitors could increase their relative negotiating power and allow them to
force a negative shift in our trade terms. Our results of operations could also be adversely affected if these retailers suffer
a significant deterioration in sales performance, if we are required to reduce our prices or increase our promotional
spending activity as a consequence, if we are unable to collect accounts receivable from our customers, if we lose
business from a major customer or if our relationship with a major customer deteriorates.
Our retail customers also offer private label products that compete directly with our products for
retail shelf space and consumer purchases. Private label products typically have higher margins for retailers than other
branded products. Accordingly, there is a risk that our customers may give higher priority to private label products or the
branded products of our competitors, which would adversely affect sales of our products. Our major multiple retail
customers are also expanding into non-food product lines in their stores, thereby exerting pressure on available shelf
space for other categories such as food products. We may be unable to adequately respond to these trends and, as a
result, the volume of our sales may decrease or we may need to lower the prices of our products, either of which could
adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
16 Nomad Foods Annual Report 2018Increased distribution costs or disruption of transportation services could adversely affect our business and
financial results.
Distribution costs have historically fluctuated significantly over time, particularly in connection with
oil prices, and increases in such costs could result in reduced profits. In addition, certain factors affecting distribution costs
are controlled by our third party carriers. To the extent that the market price for fuel or freight or the number or availability
of carriers fluctuates, our distribution costs could be affected. Furthermore, temporary or long-term disruption of
transportation services due to weather-related problems, strikes or other events could impair our ability to supply products
affordably and in a timely manner or at all. Failure to deliver our perishable food products promptly could also result in
inventory spoilage. These factors could impact our commercial reputation and result in our customers reducing their
orders or ceasing to order our products. Any increases in the cost of transportation, and any disruption in transportation,
could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We require the use of
refrigerated vehicles to ship our products and such distribution costs represent an important element of our cost structure.
We are dependent on third parties for almost all of our transportation requirements. In Italy, our distribution network is
shared with Unilever’s ice cream business, which provides us with an advantage over smaller market participants. Our
arrangement with Unilever is governed by a distribution agreement which expires in 2022. If we change the transportation
services we use, we could face logistical difficulties that could delay deliveries, and we could incur costs and expend
resources in connection with such change. 
We do not have long-term contractual agreements with our key customers, which exposes us to increased risks
with respect to such customers.
As is typical in the food industry, sales to our key customers in our major markets are made on a
daily demand basis. We generally do not have long-term contractual commitments to supply such customers and must
renegotiate supply and pricing terms of our products on a regular basis. Customarily, trade terms are renegotiated
annually; however, ad-hoc changes are often made on an informal basis, such as by email, to reflect discounts and
promotional arrangements. Amounts paid are subject to end of period reconciliations to reflect these informal
arrangements. In some cases, our customers have claimed reimbursement for informal discount arrangements going
back multiple periods. In addition, we do not have written contractual arrangements with a number of our other
customers. Most of our customer relationships or arrangements could be terminated or renegotiated at any time and, in
some cases, without reasonable notice.
Our customers may not be creditworthy.
Our business is subject to the risks of nonpayment and nonperformance by our customers. We
manage our exposure to credit risk through credit analysis and monitoring procedures, and sometimes use letters of
credit, prepayments and guarantees. However, these procedures and policies cannot fully eliminate customer credit risk,
and to the extent our policies and procedures prove to be inadequate, it could negatively affect our financial condition and
results of operations. In addition, some of our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and
regulatory risks and, even if our credit review and analysis mechanisms work properly, we may experience financial
losses in our dealings with such parties. Any future financial market disruptions or tightening of the credit markets could
result in some of our customers experiencing a significant decline in profits and/or reduced liquidity. A significant adverse
change in the financial position of a customer could require us to assume greater credit risk relating to that customer and
could limit our ability to collect receivables. We do not maintain credit insurance to insure against customer credit risk. If
our customers fail to fulfill their contractual obligations, it may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition
and results of operation.
Failure to protect our brand names and trademarks could materially affect our business.
Our principal brand names and trademarks (such as Birds Eye, Iglo, Findus, Aunt Bessie's and
Goodfella's) are key assets of our business and our success depends upon our ability to protect our intellectual property
rights. We rely upon trademark laws to establish and protect our intellectual property rights, but cannot be certain that the
actions we have taken or will take in the future will be adequate to prevent violation of our proprietary rights. Litigation may
be necessary to enforce our trademark or proprietary rights or to defend us against claimed infringement of the rights of
third parties. In addition, the Birds Eye brand, which we use in the UK, is used by other producers in the United States and
Australia. Even though the brands have different logos, adverse publicity from such other markets may negatively impact
the perception of our brands in our respective markets. Adverse publicity, legal action or other factors could lead to
substantial erosion in the value of our brands, which could lead to decreased consumer demand and could have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Nomad Foods Annual Report 2018 17There is also a risk that other parties may have intellectual property rights covering some of our
brands, products or technology. If any third parties bring a claim of intellectual property infringement against us, we may
be subject to costly and time-consuming litigation, diverting the attention of management and our employees. If we are
unsuccessful in defending against such claims, we may be subject to, among other things, significant damages,
injunctions against development and sale of certain products, or we may be required to enter into costly licensing
agreements, any of which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.
We are exposed to risks related to our financial arrangements with respect to receivables factoring. 
We enter into factoring arrangements with financial institutions to sell certain of our accounts receivables
from customers without recourse. If we were to stop entering into these factoring arrangements, our operating results,
financial condition and cash flows could be adversely impacted by delays or failures in collecting accounts receivables.
However, by entering into these arrangements we are exposed to additional risks. If any of these financial institutions
experiences financial difficulties or is otherwise unable to honor the terms of our factoring arrangements, we may
experience material financial losses due to the failure of such arrangements which could have an adverse impact upon
our operating results, financial condition and cash flows.
Health concerns or adverse developments with respect to the safety or quality of products of the food industry in
general, or our own products specifically, may damage our reputation, increase our costs of operations and
decrease demand for our products.
Food safety and the public’s perception that our products are safe and healthy are essential to our
image and business. We sell food products for human consumption, which subjects us to safety risks such as product
contamination, spoilage, misbranding or product tampering. Product contamination, including the presence of a foreign
object, substance, chemical or other agent or residue or the introduction of a genetically modified organism, could require
product withdrawals or recalls or the destruction of inventory, and could result in negative publicity, temporary plant
closures and substantial costs of compliance or remediation. For example, while it did not significantly impact our
Predecessor’s business, many food companies including our Predecessor had to deal with the reputational impact of the
industry-wide horsemeat contamination issue that arose across most European food markets in January 2013. In addition,
food producers, including us, have been targeted by extortion attempts that threatened to contaminate products displayed
in supermarkets. Such attempts can result in the temporary removal of products from shelf displays as a precautionary
measure and result in lost revenue. We may also be impacted by publicity concerning any assertion that our products
caused illness or injury. In addition, we could be subject to claims or lawsuits relating to an actual or alleged illness
stemming from product contamination or any other incidents that compromise the safety and quality of our products. Any
significant lawsuit or widespread product recall or other events leading to the loss of consumer confidence in the safety
and quality of our products could damage our brand, reputation and image and negatively impact our sales, profitability
and prospects for growth. We could also be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of
certain food products or ingredients, or the food safety system generally. If another company recalls or experiences
negative publicity related to a product in a category in which we compete, consumers might reduce their overall
consumption of products in this category. Adverse publicity about these types of concerns, whether valid or not, may
discourage consumers from buying our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. In addition, product recalls
are difficult to foresee and prepare for and, in the event we are required to recall one or more of our products, such recall
may result in loss of sales due to unavailability of our products and may take up a significant amount of our management’s
time and attention. We maintain systems designed to monitor food safety risks and require our suppliers to do so as well.
However, we cannot guarantee that our efforts will be successful or that such risks will not materialize. In addition,
although we attempt, through contractual relationships and regular inspections, to control the risk of contamination caused
by third parties in relation to the several manufacturing and distribution processes we outsource, we cannot guarantee
that our efforts will be successful or that contamination of our products by third parties will not materialize.
We are also subject to further risks affecting the food industry generally, including risks posed by
widespread contamination and evolving nutritional and health-related concerns. Regulatory authorities may limit the
supply of certain types of food products in response to public health concerns and consumers may perceive certain
products to be unsafe or unhealthy. In addition, governmental regulations may require us to identify replacement products
to offer to our customers or, alternatively, to discontinue certain offerings or limit the range of products we offer. We may
be unable to find substitutes that are as appealing to our customer base, or such substitutes may not be widely available
or may be available only at increased costs. Such substitutions or limitations could also reduce demand for our products.
18 Nomad Foods Annual Report 2018We could also be subject to claims or lawsuits relating to an actual or alleged illness or injury or
death stemming from the consumption of a misbranded, altered, contaminated or spoiled product, which could negatively
affect our business. Awards of damages, settlement amounts and fees and expenses resulting from such claims and the
public relations implications of any such claims could have an adverse effect on our business. The availability and price of
insurance to cover claims for damages are subject to market forces that we do not control, and such insurance may not
cover all the costs of such claims and would not cover damage to our reputation. Even if product liability claims against us
are not successful or fully pursued, these claims could be costly and time consuming, increase our insurance premiums
and divert our management’s time and resources towards defending them rather than operating our business. In addition,
any adverse publicity concerning such claims, even if unfounded, could cause customers to lose confidence in the safety
and quality of our products and damage our reputation and brand image.
Potential liabilities and costs from litigation could adversely affect our business.
There is no guarantee that we will be successful in defending ourselves in civil, criminal or
regulatory actions, including under general, commercial, employment, environmental, food quality and safety, anti-trust
and trade, advertising and claims, and environmental laws and regulations, or in asserting our rights under various laws.
For example, our marketing or claims could face allegations of false or deceptive advertising or other criticisms which
could end up in litigation and result in potential liabilities or costs. In addition, we could incur substantial costs and fees in
defending ourselves or in asserting our rights in these actions or meeting new legal requirements. Even when not
merited, the defense of these lawsuits may divert our management’s attention, and we may incur significant costs in
defending these lawsuits. The costs and other effects of potential and pending litigation and administrative actions against
us, and new legal requirements, cannot be determined with certainty and may differ from expectations.
We are exposed to local business and tax risks in many different countries.
We operate in various countries in Europe, predominantly in the UK, Germany, France, Italy,
Sweden and Norway. As a result, our business is subject to risks resulting from differing legal, political, social and
regulatory requirements, economic conditions and unforeseeable developments in these markets, all or any of which
could result in disruption of our activities. These risks include, among others, political instability (including the impact of
Brexit), differing economic cycles, tariffs, duties and adverse economic conditions, unexpected changes in regulatory
environments, currency exchange rate fluctuations, inability to collect payments or seek recourse under or comply with
ambiguous or vague commercial or other laws, changes in distribution and supply channels, foreign exchange controls
and restrictions on repatriation of funds, and difficulties in attracting and retaining qualified management and employees.
Our overall success in the markets in which we operate depends, to a considerable extent, on our ability to effectively
manage differing legal, political, social and regulatory requirements, economic conditions and unforeseeable
developments. We cannot guarantee that we will succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies which
will be effective in each location where we do business.
We must comply with complex and evolving tax regulations in the various jurisdictions in which we
operate, which subjects us to international tax compliance risks. Some tax jurisdictions in which we operate have complex
and subjective rules regarding income tax, value-added tax, sales or excise tax, tariffs, duties and transfer tax. From time
to time, our foreign subsidiaries are subject to tax audits and may be required to pay additional taxes, interest or penalties
should the taxing authority assert different interpretations, or different allocations or valuations of our services which could
be material and could reduce our income and cash flow from our international subsidiaries. We currently have several
pending tax assessments and audits in various jurisdictions including Germany, France and Italy. The agreements by
which we acquired certain businesses provide for certain indemnifications of tax liabilities which may arise in certain
jurisdictions which we believe are sufficient to address these specific tax matters as far as they relate to those businesses.
We have also established, where appropriate, reserves and provisions for tax assessments which we believe to be
adequate to address potential tax liabilities. However, it is possible that the tax audits referred to above could result in the
volatility of timings of cash tax payment and recoveries.
Nomad Foods Annual Report 2018 19Our business is dependent on third-party suppliers and changes or difficulties in our relationships with our
suppliers may harm our business and financial results.
We outsource some of our business functions to third-party suppliers, such as the processing of
certain vegetables and other products, the manufacturing of packaging materials and distribution of our products. Our
suppliers are subject to their own unique operational and financial risks, which are out of our control. Our suppliers may
fail to meet timelines or contractual obligations or provide us with sufficient products, which may adversely affect our
business. Certain of our contracts with key suppliers, such as for the raw materials we use in our products, are short term,
can be terminated by the supplier upon giving notice within a certain period and restrict us from using other suppliers.
Also, a number of our supply contracts, including for fish and vegetables, may be terminated by the supplier upon a
change in our ownership. Failure to appropriately structure or adequately manage our agreements with third parties may
adversely affect our supply of products. We are also subject to credit risk with respect to our third-party suppliers. If any
such suppliers become insolvent, an appointed trustee could potentially ignore the service contracts we have in place with
such party, resulting in increased charges or the termination of the service contracts. We may not be able to replace a
service provider within a reasonable period of time, on as favorable terms or without disruption to our operations. Any
adverse changes to our relationships with third-party suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our image, brand
and reputation, as well as on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
In addition, to the extent that our creditworthiness is impaired, or general economic conditions
decline, certain of our key suppliers may demand onerous payment terms that could materially adversely affect our
working capital position, or such suppliers may refuse to continue to supply to us. A number of our key suppliers have
taken out trade credit insurance on our ability to pay them. To the extent that such trade credit insurance becomes
unobtainable or more expensive due to market conditions, we may face adverse changes to payment terms by our key
suppliers or they may refuse to continue to supply us.
The price of energy we consume in the manufacture, storage and distribution of our products is subject to
volatile market conditions.
The price of electricity and other energy resources required in the manufacture, storage and
distribution of our products is subject to volatile market conditions. These market conditions are often affected by political
and economic factors beyond our control, including, for instance, the energy policies of the countries in which we operate.
For example, the German government’s decision to phase out nuclear power generation by 2022 could cause electricity
prices and price volatility in Germany to increase. Any sustained increases in energy costs could have an adverse effect
on the attractiveness of frozen food products for our customers and consumers and could affect our competitive position if
our competitors’ energy costs do not increase at the same rate as ours. In addition, disruptions in the supply of energy
resources could temporarily impair our ability to manufacture products for our customers. Such disruptions may also occur
as a result of the loss of energy supply contracts or the inability to enter into new energy supply contracts on commercially
attractive terms. Furthermore, natural catastrophes or similar events could affect the electricity grid. Any such disruptions,
or increases in energy costs as a result of the aforementioned factors or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect
on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Any disruptions, failures or security breaches of our information technology systems could harm our business
and reduce our profitability.
We rely on our information technology systems for communication among our suppliers,
manufacturing plants, distribution functions, headquarters and customers. Our performance depends on the availability of
accurate and timely data and other information from key software applications to aid day-to-day business and decisionmaking processes. We may be adversely affected if our controls designed to manage information technology operational
risks fail to contain such risks. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain
the proper technology infrastructure and to maintain the related automated and manual control processes, we could be
subject to adverse effects including billing and collection errors, business disruptions, in particular concerning our
manufacturing and logistics functions, and security breaches. Any disruption caused by failings in our information
technology infrastructure equipment or of communication networks, could delay or otherwise impact our day-to-day
business and decision-making processes and negatively impact our performance. In addition, we are reliant on third
parties to service parts of our IT infrastructure. Failure on their part to provide good and timely service may have an
adverse impact on our information technology network. Furthermore, we do not control the facilities or operations of our
suppliers. An interruption of operations at any of their or our facilities or any failure by them to deliver on their contractual
commitments may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
20 Nomad Foods Annual Report 2018Although our information technology systems are protected through physical and software
safeguards, it is difficult to protect against the possibility of damage or breach created by cyber-attacks or other security
attacks in every potential circumstance that may arise. As cyber-attacks are increasing in frequency and sophistication it
becomes even more difficult to protect against a breach of our information technology systems. Cybersecurity incidents
that impact the availability, reliability, speed, accuracy, or other proper functioning of these information technology systems
could have a significant impact on our operations. If we are unable to prevent physical and electronic break-ins, cyberattacks and other information security breaches, we may suffer financial and reputational damage, be subject to litigation
or incur remediation costs or penalties because of the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us
or to our customers, suppliers or employees. The mishandling or inappropriate disclosure of non-public sensitive or
protected information could lead to the loss of intellectual property, negatively impact planned corporate transactions or
damage our reputation and brand image. Misuse, leakage or falsification of legally protected information could also result
in a violation of data privacy laws and regulations and have a negative impact on our reputation, business, financial
condition and results of operations. 
Changes in the European regulatory environment regarding privacy and data protection regulations, such as the
European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), could expose us to risks of noncompliance and
costs associated with compliance. 
On May 25, 2018, the EU’s GDPR became enforceable. The GDPR relates to the collection, use,
retention, security, processing and transfer of personally identifiable information of residents of EU countries, and because
of our operations in the EU, including in the UK, we are subject to these heightened standards. The GDPR created a
range of new compliance obligations, and imposes significant fines and sanctions for violations. As a result of legislative
and regulatory rules, we may be required to notify the owners of the personal information together with the relevant
regulatory authorities of any data breaches, which could harm our reputation and financial results, as well as subject us to
litigation or actions by such regulatory authorities.
Our supply network and manufacturing and distribution facilities could be disrupted by factors beyond our
control such as extreme weather, fire, terrorist activity and natural disasters.
Severe weather conditions and natural disasters, such as storms, floods, droughts, frosts,
earthquakes or pestilence, may affect the supply of the raw materials that we use for the manufacturing of our
products. For example, changing climate may cause flooding and drought in crop growing areas or changes in sea
temperatures affecting marine biomass, fishing catch rates and overall fishing conditions. In addition, drought or floods
may affect the feed supply for red meat and poultry, which in turn may affect the quality and availability of protein sources
for our products. Competing food producers can be affected differently by weather conditions and natural disasters
depending on the location of their supply sources. If our supplies of raw materials are reduced, we may not be able to find
adequate supplemental supply sources, if at all, on favorable terms, which could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition and results of operation.
In addition, our manufacturing facilities may be subject to damage or disruption resulting from fire
terrorist activity, natural disasters or other causes. For example, our Lowestoft and Bremerhaven manufacturing facilities
are situated in regions which have historically been prone to flooding. Extensive damage to any of our thirteen major
manufacturing facilities as a result of any of the foregoing reasons, could, to the extent that lost production could not be
compensated for by unaffected facilities, severely affect our ability to conduct our business operations and, as a result,
adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Furthermore, as we lease parts of our Boulogne, Bremerhaven, Lowestoft, and Tonsberg sites, the
use of these properties is subject to certain terms and conditions, the breach of which could affect our ability to continue
use of these properties which in turn may disrupt our operations and may materially adversely affect our results of
operations.
Nomad Foods Annual Report 2018 21We may be unable to realize the expected benefits of actions taken to align our resources, operate more
efficiently and control costs.
When required we take actions, such as workforce reductions, plant closures and consolidations,
and other cost reduction initiatives, such as our factory optimization program, to align our resources with our growth
strategies, operate more efficiently and control costs. As these plans and actions are complex, unforeseen factors could
result in expected savings and benefits to be delayed or not realized to the full extent planned, could negatively impact
labor relations, including causing work stoppages, and could lead to disruptions in our business and operations and higher
short-term costs related to severance and related capital expenditures. In 2016, we announced the closure of our factory
and pea processing operations in Bjuv, Sweden, and operations ceased in the first half of 2017 with production transferred
to other factories in the Group’s network. In March 2018, we sold the factory building and parts of the premises. We may
be unable to realize the expected benefits of these actions which could potentially adversely affect our profitability and
operations.
Significant disruption in our workforce or the workforce of our suppliers could adversely affect our business,
financial condition and results of operations.
As of December 31, 2018, we employed approximately 4,813 employees, of which approximately
1,394 were located in Germany, 1,223 were located in the UK, 346 were located in France, 456 were located in Italy, 467
were located in Sweden/Norway and 927 employees in other locations. As of December 31, 2018, approximately 72% of
our employees worked in our manufacturing operations. We have in the past, and may in the future, experience labor
disputes and work stoppages at one or more of our manufacturing sites due to localized strikes or strikes in the larger
retail food industry sector. We have also been involved in negotiations on collective bargaining agreements. A labor
stoppage or other interruption at one of our thirteen manufacturing sites would impact our ability to supply our customers
and could have a pronounced effect on our operations. Further, a number of our employees in the UK are not UK citizens
and, depending on the terms negotiated, may no longer have the right to work in the UK following the UK’s formal
withdrawal from the EU. Future labor disturbance or work stoppage at any of our or our suppliers’ facilities in Germany,
the UK, Italy or elsewhere may have an adverse effect on such facility’s operations and, potentially, on our business,
financial condition and results of operations.
Higher labor costs could adversely affect our business and financial results.
We compete with other producers for good and dependable employees. The supply of such
employees is limited and competition to hire and retain them may result in higher labor costs. Furthermore, a substantial
majority of our employees are subject to national minimum wage requirements. If legislation is enacted in these countries
that has the effect of raising the national minimum wage requirements, requires additional mandatory employee benefits
or affects our ability to hire or dismiss employees, we could face substantially higher labor costs. In the UK, the National
Minimum Wage and National Living Wage increased in April 2018. High labor costs could adversely affect our profitability
if we are not able to pass them on to our customers.
We are dependent upon key executives and highly qualified managers and we cannot assure their retention.
Our success depends, in part, upon the continued services of key members of our management.
Our executives’ and managers’ knowledge of the market, our business and our company represents a key strength of our
business, which cannot be easily replicated. The success of our business strategy and our future growth also depend on
our ability to attract, train, retain and motivate skilled managerial, sales, administration, development and operating
personnel.
There can be no assurance that our existing personnel will be adequate or qualified to carry out our
strategy, or that we will be able to hire or retain experienced, qualified employees to carry out our strategy. The loss of one
or more of our key management or operating personnel, or the failure to attract and retain additional key personnel, could
have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
22 Nomad Foods Annual Report 2018Costs or liabilities relating to compliance with applicable directives, regulations and laws could have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
As a producer of food products for human consumption, we are subject to extensive regulation in
the UK, Germany, France, Italy, Sweden, Norway and other countries in which we operate, as well as the European
Union, that governs production, composition, manufacturing, storage, transport, advertising, packaging, health, quality,
labeling, safety and distribution standards. In addition, national regulations that have implemented European directives
applicable to frozen products establish highly technical requirements regarding labeling, manufacturing, transportation and
storage of frozen food products. For example, regulations of the European Parliament and Council published in October
2011 changed rules relating to the presentation of nutritional information on packaging and other rules on labeling. It is
unclear how this will be impacted under Brexit but there may be changes and further regulations that the company has to
adhere to. Local governmental authorities also set out health and safety related conditions and restrictions. Any failure to
comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, product recalls
or asset seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition and results of operations.
In addition, our facilities and our suppliers’ facilities are subject to licensing, reporting requirements
and official quality controls by numerous governmental authorities. These governmental authorities include European,
national and local health, environmental, labor relations, sanitation, building, zoning, and fire and safety departments.
Difficulties in obtaining or failure to obtain the necessary licenses or approval could delay or prevent the development,
expansion or operation of a given production or warehouse facility. Any changes in those regulations may require us to
implement new quality controls and possibly invest in new equipment, which could delay the development of new products
and increase our operating costs.
All of our products must comply with strict national and international hygiene regulations. Our
facilities and our suppliers’ facilities are subject to regular inspection by authorities for compliance with hygiene regulations
applicable to the sale, storage and manufacturing of foodstuffs and the traceability of genetically modified organisms,
meats and other raw materials. Additionally, in certain jurisdictions, food business operators, including those in the food
storage, processing and distribution sectors, are required to trace all food, animal feed, and food-producing animals under
their control using registration systems that track the source of the products through the supply chain. Despite the
precautions we undertake, should any non-compliance with such regulations be discovered during an inspection or
otherwise, authorities may temporarily shut down any of our facilities and levy a fine for such non-compliance, which could
have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
We could incur material costs to address violations of, or liabilities under, health, safety and environmental
regulations.
Our facilities and operations are subject to numerous health, safety and environmental regulations,
including local and national laws, and European directives and regulations governing, among other things, water supply
and use, water discharges, air emissions, chemical safety, solid and hazardous waste management and disposal, cleanup of contamination, energy use, noise pollution, and workplace health and safety. Health, safety and environmental
legislation in Europe and elsewhere have generally become more comprehensive and restrictive and more rigid over time
and enforcement has become more stringent. Failure to comply with applicable requirements, or the terms of required
permits, can result in penalties or fines, clean-up costs, third party property damage and personal injury claims, which
could have a material adverse effect on our brand, business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if
health, safety and environmental laws and regulations in the UK, Germany, France, Italy, Sweden, Norway and the other
countries in which we operate or from which we source raw materials and ingredients become more stringent in the future,
the extent and timing of investments required to maintain compliance may exceed our budgets or estimates and may limit
the availability of funding for other investments.
Furthermore, under some environmental laws, we could be liable for costs incurred in investigating
or remediating contamination at properties we own or occupy, even if the contamination was caused by a party unrelated
to us or was not caused by us, and even if the activity which caused the contamination was legal at the time it
occurred. The discovery of previously unknown contamination, or the imposition of new or more burdensome obligations
to investigate or remediate contamination at our properties or at third-party sites, could result in substantial unanticipated
costs which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Nomad Foods Annual Report 2018 23In certain jurisdictions, we are also subject to legislation designed to significantly reduce industrial
energy use, carbon dioxide emissions and the emission of ozone depleting compounds more generally. If we fail to meet
applicable standards for energy use reduction or are unable to decrease, and in some cases eliminate, certain emissions
within the applicable period required by relevant laws and regulations, we could be subject to significant penalties or fines
and temporary or long-term disruptions to production at our facilities, all of which could have a material adverse effect on
our business, financial condition and results of operations.
We are subject to a variety of regulatory schemes; failure to comply with applicable rules and regulations could
adversely affect our business, results of operations and reputation. 
Our operations are subject to a variety of regulatory schemes which require us to implement
processes, procedures and controls to provide reasonable assurance that we are operating in compliance with applicable
regulations, including the UK Bribery Act, the Modern Slavery Act 2015, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, the
Trade Sanctions and Export Controls and the EU General Data Protection Regulation. Failure to comply (or any alleged
failure to comply) with the regulations referenced above or any other regulations could result in civil and criminal,
monetary and non-monetary penalties, and any such failure or alleged failure (or becoming subject to a regulatory
enforcement investigation) could also damage our reputation, disrupt our business, result in loss of customers and cause
us to incur significant legal and investigatory fees. In addition, our business, including our ability to operate and continue
to expand internationally, could be adversely affected if local and foreign laws or regulations are adopted, interpreted, or
implemented in a manner that is inconsistent with our current business practices and that require rapid changes to these
practices or our products, services, policies and procedures.  If we are not able to adapt our business practices or
strategies to changes in laws or regulations, it could subject us to liability, increased costs and reduced product demand.
Additionally, the costs of compliance with laws and regulations may increase in the future as a result of changes in
interpretation.  Any failure by us to comply with applicable laws and regulations may subject us to significant liabilities and
could adversely affect our business, results of operations and reputation. 
A failure in our cold chain could lead to unsafe food conditions and increased costs.
“Cold chain” requirements setting out the temperatures at which our ingredients and products are
stored are established both by statute and by us to help guarantee the safety of our food products. Our cold chain is
maintained from the moment the ingredients arrive at, or are frozen by, our suppliers, through our manufacturing and
transportation of products and ultimately to the time of sale in retail stores. These standards ensure the quality, freshness
and safety of our products. A failure in the cold chain could lead to food contamination, risks to the health of consumers,
fines and damage to our brands and reputation, each of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial
condition and results of operations.
Seasonality impacts our business, and our revenue and working capital levels may vary quarter to quarter.
Our sales and working capital levels have historically been affected to a limited extent by
seasonality. In general, sales volumes for frozen food are slightly higher in cold or winter months, partly because there are
fewer fresh alternatives available for vegetables and because our customers typically allocate more freezer space to the
ice cream segment in summer or hotter months. In addition, variable production costs, including costs for seasonal staff,
and working capital requirements associated with the keeping of inventories, vary depending on the harvesting and buying
periods of seasonal raw materials, in particular vegetable crops. For example, stock (and therefore net working capital)
levels typically peak in August to September just after the pea harvest. If seasonal fluctuations are greater than
anticipated, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.
We have risks related to our indebtedness, including our ability to withstand adverse business conditions and to
meet our debt service obligations.
Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, and to fund our operations,
working capital and capital expenditures, depends on our ability to generate cash. To a certain extent, our cash flow is
subject to general economic, industry, financial, competitive, operating, legislative, regulatory and other factors, many of
which are beyond our control.
We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that
future sources of cash will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay amounts due on our indebtedness
or to fund our other liquidity needs.
24 Nomad Foods Annual Report 2018Additionally, if we incur additional indebtedness in connection with any future acquisitions or
development projects or for any other purpose, our debt service obligations could increase. We may need to refinance all
or a portion of our indebtedness before maturity. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness or obtain additional financing
will depend on, among other things:
• our financial condition and market conditions at the time;
• restrictions in the agreements governing our indebtedness;
• general economic and capital market conditions;
• the availability of credit from banks or other lenders;
• investor confidence in us; and
• our results of operations.
In addition, a significant part of our indebtedness includes provisions with respect to maintaining
and complying with certain financial and operational covenants. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be
affected by events beyond our control. A breach of one or more of these covenants could result in an event of default and
may give rise to an acceleration of the debt. In the longer term, such breach of covenants could have a material adverse
effect on our operations and cash flows.
Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations
to increase significantly.
An increase in market interest rates would increase our interest expense arising on our existing and
future floating rate indebtedness. Pursuant to the terms of our Senior Facilities Agreement, the interest rate that we pay on
indebtedness incurred under our term loan facilities or revolving credit facility varies based on a fixed margin over a base
rate which references the LIBOR or EURIBOR rates. As a result, we are exposed to interest rate risk. If interest rates
increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness will increase even though the amount borrowed
remained the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, will
correspondingly decrease. Pursuant to the Company interest rate hedging policy, we may enter into interest rate
derivatives that may involve the exchange of floating for fixed rate interest payments in order to reduce interest rate
volatility. However, we may not maintain interest rate swaps with respect to all of our variable rate indebtedness, and any
swaps we enter into may not fully mitigate our interest rate risk. 
Our indebtedness is subject to changes in interest reference rates
Pursuant to the terms of the current Senior Facilities Agreement, the interest rate paid on
indebtedness incurred under our term loan facilities or revolving credit facility varies based on a fixed margin over a base
rate which references the LIBOR or EURIBOR rates. As a result of decisions taken by national regulators, LIBOR and
EURIBOR may become phased out and replaced by a replacement reference index. If LIBOR ceases to exist, we may
need to renegotiate our Senior Credit Agreement with our lenders. As a result of changes to underling interest reference
rates, the Company may be exposed to volatility with regard to interest cost on indebtedness or linked interest rate
hedging arrangements.
We are exposed to exchange rate risks and such rates may adversely affect our results of operations.
We are exposed to exchange rate risk. Our reporting currency is the Euro and yet a significant
proportion of our sales and EBITDA are in Pound Sterling through our UK based business, and Norwegian Krone and
Swedish Krona through our Norwegian and Swedish based businesses. We are exposed to foreign exchange translation
risk as we convert the Pound Sterling results of our UK business and the Norwegian Krone and Swedish Krona results of
our Norwegian and Swedish business into our reporting currency of Euro. Pursuant to Company foreign exchange
hedging policy, we have converted a portion of our USD term loan to GBP using cross currency interest rate swaps that
act as a Net Investment hedge for our UK business. We are exposed to transactional exchange rate risk as a significant
portion of our raw material purchases are denominated in non-functional currencies of the purchasing entity,
predominantly U.S. Dollars and Euro. Company policy is to reduce this risk by using foreign exchange forward contracts
that are designated as cash flow hedges. However, such hedging arrangements may not fully protect us against currency
fluctuations and may or not be deemed to be cash flow hedge effective. Fluctuations and sustained strengthening of nonfunctional currencies against the functional currency of the operating entities may materially adversely affect our
business, financial condition and results of operations.
Nomad Foods Annual Report 2018 25Changes to our payment terms with both customers and suppliers may materially adversely affect our operating
cash flows.
We may experience significant pressure from our key suppliers to reduce trade payable terms. At
the same time, we may experience pressure from our customers to extend trade receivable terms. Any such changes in
commercial arrangements regarding trade payable and trade receivable payment terms, may have a material adverse
effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
Changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management related
to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial results.
Generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation
guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business, including but not
limited to revenue recognition, leases, estimating valuation allowances and accrued liabilities (including allowances for
returns, doubtful accounts and obsolete and damaged inventory), accounting for income taxes, valuation of long-lived and
intangible assets and goodwill, stock-based compensation and loss contingencies, are highly complex and involve many
subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by our management. Changes in these rules or their interpretation or
changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments by our management could significantly change our reported
or expected financial performance, and could have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, we expect
that the impact of the adoption of IFRS 16 ‘Leases’, which is effective from January 1, 2019, will add net liabilities of
approximately €36.0 million to the Statement of Financial Position, with a corresponding increase to the accumulated
deficit reserve. Furthermore, we expect that profit before tax will be negatively affected by approximately €5.0 million for
the twelve months ended December 31, 2019. In addition, we expect that Adjusted EBITDA will increase approximately
€15.0 million, with lease costs being replaced by additional depreciation and interest charges. 
Management continues to assess new accounting pronouncements and their impact on the
Company prior to their adoption dates.
We may incur liabilities that are not covered by insurance.
While we seek to maintain appropriate levels of insurance, not all claims are insurable and we may
experience major incidents of a nature that are not covered by insurance. Our insurance policies cover, among other
things, employee-related accidents and injuries, property damage and liability deriving from our activities. In particular, our
Lowestoft and Bremerhaven manufacturing facilities are situated in regions that have historically been affected by
flooding. We may not be able to obtain flood insurance on reasonable terms or at all with respect to those facilities. We
maintain an amount of insurance protection that we believe is adequate, but there can be no assurance that such
insurance will continue to be available on acceptable terms or that our insurance coverage will be sufficient or effective
under all circumstances and against all liabilities to which we may be subject. We could, for example, be subject to
substantial claims for damages upon the occurrence of several events within one calendar year. In addition, our insurance
costs may increase over time in response to any negative development in our claims history or due to material price
increases in the insurance market in general.
An impairment of the carrying value of goodwill or other intangible assets could negatively affect our
consolidated operating results and net worth.
Goodwill represents amounts arising from acquisitions and is the difference between the cost of the
acquisition and the fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired. Intangible assets can include computer software,
brands, customer relationships and other acquired intangibles as of the acquisition date. Goodwill and other intangibles
expected to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows are not amortized, but must be evaluated by management at least
annually for impairment. If carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount, the intangible is considered impaired and is
reduced to fair value via a charge to earnings. Factors outside of our control which could result in an impairment include,
but are not limited to: (i) reduced demand for our products; (ii) higher commodity prices; (iii) lower prices for our products
or increased marketing as a result of increased competition; and (iv) significant disruptions to our operations as a result of
both internal and external events. Should the value of one or more of the acquired intangibles become impaired, our
consolidated profit or loss and net assets may be materially adversely affected. As of December 31, 2018, the carrying
value of intangible assets totaled €3,948.2 million, of which €1,861.0 million was goodwill and €2,087.2 million
represented brands, computer software, customer relationships and other acquired intangibles compared to total assets of
€5,340.8 million.
26 Nomad Foods Annual Report 2018We face risks associated with certain pension obligations.
The Company has a mixture of partially funded and unfunded post-employment defined benefit
plans in Germany, Sweden and Austria as well as defined benefit indemnity arrangements in Italy and France.
Deterioration in the value or lower than expected returns on investments may lead to an increase in our obligation to make
contributions to these plans.
The obligations that arise from these plans are calculated using actuarial valuations which are
based on assumptions linked to the performance of financial markets, interest rates and legislation which changes over
time. Adverse changes to these assumptions will impact the obligations recognized and would lead to higher cash
payments in the long term.
Our obligation to make contributions to the pension plans could reduce the cash available for
operational and other corporate uses and may have a materially adverse impact on our operations, financial condition and
liquidity.
If we fail to or are unable to implement and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, the
accuracy and timeliness of our financial reporting may be adversely affected.
We are subject to reporting obligations under U.S. securities laws. The SEC, as required under
Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, has adopted rules requiring every public company to include a report of
management on the effectiveness of such company's internal control over financial reporting in its annual report. In
addition, an independent registered public accounting firm must issue an attestation report on the effectiveness of the
company's internal control over financial reporting.
We recognize that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can
provide only reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives, and our management necessarily applies its judgment in
evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures. If we fail to maintain effective internal control
over financial reporting in the future, we and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to
conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting at a reasonable assurance level. This could in turn
result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. Furthermore, we have incurred and
anticipate that we will continue to incur considerable costs and use significant management time and other resources in
an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we are not able to continue to
meet the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we might be subject to sanctions
or investigation by the SEC, the NYSE or other regulatory authorities. Any such action could adversely affect the accuracy
and timeliness of our financial reporting. 
Risks Related to Our Structure and Acquisition Strategy
We may not be able to consummate future acquisitions or successfully integrate acquisitions into our business,
which could result in unanticipated expenses and losses.
Our strategy is largely based on our ability to grow through acquisitions of additional businesses to
build an integrated group. Consummating acquisitions of related businesses, or our failure to integrate such businesses
successfully into our existing businesses, could result in unanticipated expenses and losses. Furthermore, we may not be
able to realize any of the anticipated benefits from acquisitions, including the Goodfella's Pizza and Aunt Bessie's
acquisitions.
We anticipate that any future acquisitions we may pursue as part of our business strategy may be
partially financed through additional debt or equity. Any future financial market disruptions or tightening of the credit
markets may make it more difficult for us to obtain financing for acquisitions or increase the cost of obtaining financing. If
new debt is added to current debt levels, or if we incur other liabilities, including contingent liabilities, in connection with an
acquisition, the debt or liabilities could impose additional constraints and requirements on our business and operations,
which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. In addition, to the extent our
ordinary shares are used for all or a portion of the consideration to be paid for future acquisitions, dilution may be
experienced by existing shareholders.
Nomad Foods Annual Report 2018 27In connection with our completed and future acquisitions, the process of integrating acquired
operations into our existing group operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant
financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing
operations. Some of the risks associated with acquisitions include:
• unexpected losses of key employees or customers of the acquired company;
• conforming the acquired company’s standards, processes, procedures and controls with our
operations;
• coordinating new product and process development;
• hiring additional management and other critical personnel;
• negotiating with labor unions; and
• increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our current operations.
We may encounter unforeseen obstacles or costs in the integration of businesses that we may
acquire. In addition, general economic and market conditions or other factors outside of our control could make our
operating strategies difficult or impossible to implement. Any failure to implement these operational improvements
successfully and/or the failure of these operational improvements to deliver the anticipated benefits could have a material
adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.
We may be subject to antitrust regulations with respect to future acquisition opportunities.
Many jurisdictions in which we operate have antitrust regulations which involve governmental filings
for certain acquisitions, impose waiting periods and require approvals by government regulators. Governmental authorities
may seek to challenge potential acquisitions or impose conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions that may delay
completion of the acquisition or materially reduce the anticipated benefits (financial or otherwise). Our inability to
consummate potential future acquisitions or to receive the full benefits of such acquisitions because of antitrust
regulations could limit our ability to execute on our acquisition strategy which could have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition and results of operations.
We may face significant competition for acquisition opportunities.
There may be significant competition in some or all of the acquisition opportunities that we may
explore. Such competition may for example come from strategic buyers, sovereign wealth funds, special purpose
acquisition companies and public and private investment funds, many of which are well established and have extensive
experience in identifying and completing acquisitions. A number of these competitors may possess greater technical,
financial, human and other resources than us. We cannot assure investors that we will be successful against such
competition. Such competition may cause us to be unsuccessful in executing any acquisition or may result in a successful
acquisition being made at a significantly higher price than would otherwise have been the case.
Any due diligence by us in connection with potential future acquisition may not reveal all relevant considerations
or liabilities of the target business, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or
results of operations.
We intend to conduct such due diligence as we deem reasonably practicable and appropriate
based on the facts and circumstances applicable to any potential acquisition. The objective of the due diligence process
will be to identify material issues which may affect the decision to proceed with any one particular acquisition target or the
consideration payable for an acquisition. We also intend to use information revealed during the due diligence process to
formulate our business and operational planning for, and our valuation of, any target company or business. While
conducting due diligence and assessing a potential acquisition, we may rely on publicly available information, if any,
information provided by the relevant target company to the extent such company is willing or able to provide such
information and, in some circumstances, third party investigations.
28 Nomad Foods Annual Report 2018There can be no assurance that the due diligence undertaken with respect to an acquisition will
reveal all relevant facts that may be necessary to evaluate such acquisition including the determination of the price we
may pay for an acquisition target or to formulate a business strategy. Furthermore, the information provided during due
diligence may be incomplete, inadequate or inaccurate. As part of the due diligence process, we will also make subjective
judgments regarding the results of operations, financial condition and prospects of a potential target. If the due diligence
investigation fails to correctly identify material issues and liabilities that may be present in a target company or business,
or if we consider such material risks to be commercially acceptable relative to the opportunity, and we proceed with an
acquisition, we may subsequently incur substantial impairment charges or other losses.
In addition, following an acquisition, including the Goodfella's Pizza and Aunt Bessie's acquisitions,
we may be subject to significant, previously undisclosed liabilities of the acquired business that were not identified during
due diligence and which could contribute to poor operational performance, undermine any attempt to restructure the
acquired company or business in line with our business plan and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition
and results of operations.
We are a holding company whose principal source of operating cash is the income received from our
subsidiaries.
We are dependent on the income generated by our subsidiaries in order to make distributions and
dividends on the ordinary shares. The amount of distributions and dividends, if any, which may be paid to us from any
operating subsidiary will depend on many factors, including such subsidiary’s results of operations and financial condition,
limits on dividends under applicable law, its constitutional documents, documents governing any indebtedness, and other
factors which may be outside our control. If our operating subsidiaries do not generate sufficient cash flow, we may be
unable to make distributions and dividends on the ordinary shares.
The Founders and/or the Founder Entities may in the future enter into related party transactions with us, which
may give rise to conflicts of interest between us and some or all of the Founders and/or the Directors.
Our founders, Martin Franklin and Noam Gottesman (the “Founders”) and/or one or more of their
affiliates, including Mariposa Acquisition II, LLC and TOMS Acquisition I LLC (the “Founder Entities”) may in the future
enter into agreements with us that are not currently under contemplation. While we have implemented procedures to
ensure we will not enter into any related party transaction without the approval of our Audit Committee, it is possible that
the entering into of such an agreement might raise conflicts of interest between us and some or all of the Founders and/or
the directors.
Risks Related to our Ordinary Shares
We have various equity instruments outstanding that would require us to issue additional ordinary
shares. Therefore, you may experience significant dilution of your ownership interests and the future issuance of
additional ordinary shares, or the anticipation of such issuances, could have an adverse effect on our share
price.
We currently have various equity instruments outstanding that would require us to issue additional
ordinary shares for no or a fixed amount of additional consideration. Specifically, as of February 25, 2019, we had
outstanding the following:
• 1,500,000 Founder Preferred Shares held by the Founder Entities, which are controlled by the
Founders. The preferred shares held by the Founder Entities (the “Founder Preferred Shares”) will
automatically convert into ordinary shares on a one for one basis (subject to adjustment in
accordance with our Memorandum and Articles of Association) on the last day of the seventh full
financial year following completion of the Iglo Acquisition and some or all of them may be converted
following written request from the holder;
• 115,625 options held by certain current and former of our Directors which are exercisable to
purchase ordinary shares, on a one-for-one basis, at any time at the option of the holder; and
• 4,572,721 equity awards issued under the LTIP, which may be converted into ordinary shares
subject, in most cases, to meeting certain performance conditions.
We also have 12,872,486 ordinary shares currently available for issuance under our LTIP.
Nomad Foods Annual Report 2018 29Holders of the Founder Preferred Shares are entitled to receive annual dividend amounts subject to
certain performance conditions (the “Founder Preferred Shares Annual Dividend Amount”). The payment of the Founder
Preferred Shares Annual Dividend Amount became mandatory after January 1, 2015 if certain share price performance
conditions are met for any given year. At our discretion, we may settle the Founder Preferred Shares Annual Dividend
Amount by issuing shares or by cash payment, but we intend to equity settle. On December 31, 2018, we approved a
2018 Founder Preferred Share Dividend in an aggregate of 171,092 ordinary shares. The dividend price used to calculate
the 2018 Founder Preferred Shares Annual Dividend Amount was $16.7538 (calculated based upon the volume weighted
average price for the last ten trading days of 2018) and the Ordinary Shares were issued on January 2, 2019. In
subsequent years, the Annual Dividend Amount will be calculated based upon the volume weighted average share price
for the last ten trading days of the financial year and the resulting appreciated average share price compared to the
highest price previously used in calculating the Annual Dividend Amount. The issuance of ordinary shares pursuant to the
terms of the Founder Preferred Shares will reduce (by the applicable proportion) the percentage shareholdings of those
shareholders holding ordinary shares prior to such issuance which may reduce your net return on your investment in our
ordinary shares.
Our ordinary share price may be volatile, and as a result, you could lose a significant portion or all of your
investment.
The market price of the ordinary shares on the NYSE may fluctuate as a result of several factors,
including the following:
• variations in our quarterly operating results;
• volatility in our industry, the industries of our customers and suppliers and the global securities
markets;
• risks relating to our business and industry, including those discussed above;
• strategic actions by us or our competitors;
• reputational damage from unsafe or poor quality food products;
• actual or expected changes in our growth rates or our competitors’ growth rates;
• investor perception of us, the industry in which we operate, the investment opportunity associated
with the ordinary shares and our future performance;
• addition or departure of our executive officers;
• changes in financial estimates or publication of research reports by analysts regarding our ordinary
shares, other comparable companies or our industry generally;
• trading volume of our ordinary shares;
• future sales of our ordinary shares by us or our shareholders;
• domestic and international economic, legal and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance; or
• the release or expiration of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares.
Furthermore, the stock markets often experience significant price and volume fluctuations that have
affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations often have
been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry
fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions such as recessions or interest rate changes may
cause the market price of ordinary shares to decline.
30 Nomad Foods Annual Report 2018If securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research reports about us, if they adversely
change their recommendations regarding our ordinary shares or if our operating results do not meet their
expectations, the price of our ordinary shares could decline.
The trading market for our ordinary shares will be influenced by the research and reports that
industry or securities analysts may publish about us, our business, our market or our competitors. Securities and industry
analysts currently publish limited research on us. If there is limited or no securities or industry analyst coverage of our
company, the market price and trading volume of our ordinary shares would likely be negatively impacted. Moreover, if
any of the analysts who may cover us downgrade our ordinary shares, provide more favorable relative recommendations
about our competitors or if our operating results or prospects do not meet their expectations, the market price of our
ordinary shares could decline. If any of the analysts who may cover us were to cease coverage or fail to regularly publish
reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our share price or trading volume
to decline.
As a foreign private issuer, we are subject to different U.S. securities laws and NYSE governance standards than
domestic U.S. issuers. This may afford less protection to holders of our ordinary shares, and you may not receive
corporate and company information and disclosure that you are accustomed to receiving or in a manner in which
you are accustomed to receiving it.
As a foreign private issuer, the rules governing the information that we disclose differ from those
governing U.S. corporations pursuant to the Exchange Act. Although we report quarterly financial results and certain
material events, we are not required to file quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or provide current reports on Form 8-K
disclosing significant events within four days of their occurrence and our quarterly or current reports may contain less
information than required for domestic issuers. In addition, we are exempt from the SEC’s proxy rules, and proxy
statements that we distribute will not be subject to review by the SEC. Our exemption from Section 16 rules regarding
sales of ordinary shares by insiders means that you will have less data in this regard than shareholders of U.S. companies
that are subject to the Exchange Act. As a result, you may not have all the data that you are accustomed to having when
making investment decisions with respect to U.S. public companies.
As a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from complying with certain corporate governance
requirements of the NYSE applicable to a U.S. issuer, including the requirement that a majority of our board of directors
consist of independent directors. As the corporate governance standards applicable to us are different than those
applicable to domestic U.S. issuers, you may not have the same protections afforded under U.S. law and the NYSE rules
as shareholders of companies that do not have such exemptions. See Item 16G: Corporate Governance.
We may lose our foreign private issuer status in the future, which could result in significant additional costs and
expenses.
We could cease to be a foreign private issuer if a majority of our outstanding voting securities are
directly or indirectly held of record by U.S. residents and we fail to meet additional requirements necessary to avoid loss of
foreign private issuer status. The regulatory and compliance costs to us under U.S. securities laws as a U.S. domestic
issuer may be significantly higher than costs we incur as a foreign private issuer, which could have a material adverse
effect on our business and financial results.
As the rights of shareholders under British Virgin Islands law differ from those under United States law, you may
have fewer protections as a shareholder.
Our corporate affairs are governed by our Memorandum and Articles of Association, the BVI
Business Companies Act, 2004 (as amended, the “BVI Act”) and the common law of the British Virgin Islands. The rights
of shareholders to take legal action against our directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary
responsibilities of our directors under British Virgin Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the
British Virgin Islands and by the BVI Act. The common law of the British Virgin Islands is derived in part from
comparatively limited judicial precedent in the British Virgin Islands as well as from English common law, which has
persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the British Virgin Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the
fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under British Virgin Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be
under statutes or judicial precedents in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the British Virgin Islands has
a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and some states (such as Delaware) have
more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law. As a result of the foregoing, holders of our ordinary
shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against our management, directors or major
shareholders than they would as shareholders of a U.S. company. See Item 16G: Corporate Governance.
Nomad Foods Annual Report 2018 31The laws of the British Virgin Islands provide limited protection for minority shareholders, so minority
shareholders will have limited or no recourse if they are dissatisfied with the conduct of our affairs.
Under the laws of the British Virgin Islands, there is limited statutory law for the protection of
minority shareholders other than the provisions of the BVI Act dealing with shareholder remedies (as summarized under
Item 16G: Corporate Governance). The principal protection under statutory law is that shareholders may bring an action to
enforce the constituent documents of the company and are entitled to have the affairs of the company conducted in
accordance with the BVI Act and the memorandum and articles of association of the company. As such, if those who
control the company have persistently disregarded the requirements of the BVI Act or the provisions of the company’s
memorandum and articles of association, then the courts will likely grant relief. Generally, the areas in which the courts
will intervene are the following: (i) an act complained of which is outside the scope of the authorized business or is illegal
or not capable of ratification by the majority; (ii) acts that constitute fraud on the minority where the wrongdoers control the
company; (iii) acts that infringe on the personal rights of the shareholders, such as the right to vote; and (iv) acts where
the company has not complied with provisions requiring approval of a special or extraordinary majority of shareholders,
which are more limited than the rights afforded minority shareholders under the laws of many states in the United States.
To the extent allowed by law, the rights and obligations among or between us, any of our current or
former directors, officers and employees and any current or former shareholder will be governed exclusively by the laws of
the British Virgin Islands and subject to the jurisdiction of the British Virgin Islands courts, unless those rights or
obligations do not relate to or arise out of their capacities as such. Although there is doubt as to whether United States
courts would enforce these provisions in an action brought in the United States under United States securities laws, these
provisions could make judgments obtained outside of the British Virgin Islands more difficult to enforce against our assets
in the British Virgin Islands or jurisdictions that would apply British Virgin Islands law.
British Virgin Islands companies may not be able to initiate shareholder derivative actions, thereby depriving
shareholders of one avenue to protect their interests.
British Virgin Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in
a federal court of the United States. The circumstances in which any such an action may be brought, and the procedures
and defenses that may be available in respect of any such action, may result in the rights of shareholders of a British
Virgin Islands company being more limited than those of shareholders of a company organized in the United
States. Accordingly, shareholders may have fewer alternatives available to them if they believe that corporate wrongdoing
has occurred. The British Virgin Islands courts are also unlikely to recognize or enforce judgments of courts in the United
States based on certain liability provisions of United States securities law or to impose liabilities, in original actions
brought in the British Virgin Islands, based on certain liability provisions of the United States securities laws that are penal
in nature. There is no statutory recognition in the British Virgin Islands of judgments obtained in the United States,
although the courts of the British Virgin Islands will generally recognize and enforce the non-penal judgment of a foreign
court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. This means that even if shareholders were to sue us
successfully, they may not be able to recover anything to make up for the losses suffered.
Dividend payments on our ordinary shares are not expected.
We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our ordinary shares. We intend only to pay such
dividends at such times, if any, and in such amounts, if any, as the board determines appropriate and in accordance with
applicable law, and then only if we receive dividends on shares held by us in our operating subsidiaries. Therefore, we
cannot give any assurance that we will be able to pay or will pay dividends going forward or as to the amount of such
dividends, if any.
Shareholders may experience a dilution of their percentage ownership if we make non-pre-emptive offers of
ordinary shares in the future.
We have opted-out of statutory pre-emptive rights pursuant to the terms of our Memorandum and
Articles of Association. No pre-emption rights therefore exist in respect of future issuance of ordinary shares whether or
not for cash. Should we decide to offer additional ordinary shares on a non-pre-emptive basis in the future, this could
dilute the interests of shareholders and/or have an adverse effect on the market price of the ordinary shares.
32 Nomad Foods Annual Report 2018Risks Related to Taxation
Changes in tax law and practice may reduce any net returns for shareholders.
The tax treatment of the Company, our shareholders and any subsidiary of ours (including Iglo and
its subsidiaries), any special purpose vehicle that we may establish and any other company which we may acquire are all
subject to changes in tax laws or practices in the British Virgin Islands, the UK, the U.S. and any other relevant
jurisdiction. Any change may reduce the value of your investment in our ordinary shares.
Failure to maintain our tax status may negatively affect our financial and operating results and shareholders.
If we were to be considered to be resident in or to carry on a trade or business within the United
States for U.S. taxation purposes or in any other country in which we are not currently treated as having a taxable
presence, we could be subject to U.S. income tax or taxes in such other country on all or a portion of our profits, as the
case may be, which may negatively affect our financial and operating results.
Taxation of returns from subsidiaries may reduce any net return to shareholders.
We and our subsidiaries are subject to taxes in a number of jurisdictions. It is possible that any
return we receive from any present or future subsidiary may be reduced by irrecoverable withholding or other local taxes
and this may reduce the value of your investment in our ordinary shares.
If any dividend is declared in the future and paid in a foreign currency, U.S. holders may be taxed on a larger
amount in U.S. Dollars than the U.S. Dollar amount actually received.
U.S. holders will be taxed on the U.S. Dollar value of dividends at the time they are received, even
if they are not converted to U.S. Dollars or are converted at a time when the U.S. Dollar value of the dividends has fallen.
The U.S. Dollar value of the payments made in the foreign currency will be determined for tax purposes at the spot rate of
the foreign currency to the U.S. Dollar on the date the dividend distribution is deemed included in such U.S. holder’s
income, regardless of whether or when the payment is in fact converted into U.S. Dollars.
We may be a “passive foreign investment company” for U.S. federal income tax purposes and adverse tax
consequences could apply to U.S. investors.
The U.S. federal income tax treatment of U.S. holders will differ depending on whether or not the
Company is considered a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”).
In general, we will be considered a PFIC for any taxable year in which: (i) 75 percent or more of our
gross income consists of passive income; or (ii) 50 percent or more of the average quarterly market value of our assets in
that year are assets that produce, or are held for the production of, passive income (including cash). For purposes of the
above calculations, if we, directly or indirectly, own at least 25 percent by value of the stock of another corporation, then
we generally would be treated as if we held our proportionate share of the assets of such other corporation and received
directly our proportionate share of the income of such other corporation. Passive income generally includes, among other
things, dividends, interest, rents, royalties, certain gains from the sale of stock and securities, and certain other investment
income.
We do not believe that we will be a PFIC for the current year. However, because the composition of
the Company's income and assets will vary over time, we can provide no assurance that we will not be a PFIC for ar any
taxable year. See item 10.E., U.S. Federal Income Taxation, Passive Foreign Investment Company ("PFIC")
Considerations