In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, the following risks and uncertainties could have a material 
adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently 
known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operation, financial condition or results. 
Risks Related to Our Business
We compete in a mature category with strong competition.
We compete in the ready-to-eat cereal category with competitors that represent larger shares of category sales. Our 
products face strong competition from competitors for shelf space and sales. Competition in our product categories is based on 
product innovation, product quality, price, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of marketing, promotional activity and 
the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. Some of our competitors have substantial financial, marketing and 
other resources, and competition with them in our various markets and product lines could cause us to reduce prices, increase 
marketing or lose market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. This 8
high level of competition by our competitors could result in a decrease in our sales volumes. In addition, increased trade 
spending or advertising or reduced prices on our competitors’ products may require us to do the same for our products which 
could impact our margins and volumes. If we did not do the same, our revenue, profitability and market share could be 
adversely affected.
We may be unable to anticipate changes in consumer preferences and trends, which could result in decreased demand for 
our products.
Our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate the tastes and eating habits of consumers and to offer products that 
appeal to their preferences. Consumer preferences change from time to time and can be affected by a number of different and 
unexpected trends. Our failure to anticipate, identify or react quickly to these changes and trends, and to introduce new and 
improved products on a timely basis, could result in reduced demand for our products, which would in turn cause our revenues 
and profitability to suffer. Similarly, demand for our products could be affected by consumer concerns regarding the health 
effects of nutrients or ingredients such as trans fats, sugar, processed wheat and corn or other product attributes.
A decline in demand for ready-to-eat cereals could adversely affect our financial performance.
We focus primarily on producing and selling ready-to-eat cereal products. Because of our product concentration, any 
decline in consumer demand or preferences, including diet-driven changes, for ready-to-eat cereals or any other factor that 
adversely affects the ready-to-eat cereal market could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or 
results of operations. We could also be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the healthfulness, safety or quality of 
ready-to-eat cereals or ingredients. Adverse publicity about these types of concerns, whether or not valid, may discourage 
consumers from buying our products or cause production and delivery disruptions.
Economic downturns could limit consumer demand for our products.
The willingness of consumers to purchase our products depends in part on general or local economic conditions. In periods 
of economic uncertainty, consumers may purchase more generic, private brand or value brands and may forego certain 
purchases altogether. In those circumstances, we could experience a reduction in sales of our products. In addition, as a result 
of economic conditions or competitive actions, we may be unable to raise our prices sufficiently to protect profit margins. Any 
of these events could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.
Commodity price volatility and higher energy costs could negatively impact profits.
The primary commodities used by our businesses include wheat, nuts (including almonds), sugar, edible oils, corn, oats, 
cocoa, and our primary packaging includes linerboard cartons and corrugated boxes. In addition, our manufacturing operations 
use large quantities of natural gas and electricity. The cost of such commodities may fluctuate widely and we may experience 
shortages in commodity items as a result of commodity market fluctuations, availability, increased demand, weather conditions, 
and natural disasters as well as other factors outside of our control. Higher prices for natural gas, electricity and fuel may also 
increase our production and delivery costs. Changes in the prices charged for our products may lag behind changes in our 
energy and commodity costs. Accordingly, changes in commodity or energy costs may limit our ability to maintain existing 
margins and have a material adverse effect on our operating profits. Due to the current year drought in the United States, 
pricing for certain commodities is expected to continue to rise, which may materially harm our business, financial condition 
and results of operations. If Post fails to hedge and prices subsequently increase, or if Post institutes a hedge and prices 
subsequently decrease, our costs may be greater than anticipated or greater than our competitors' costs and our financial results 
could be adversely affected.
The restatement of our historical financial statements may have a material adverse effect on our stock price and our 
ability to meet third party obligations. 
As a result of Ralcorp's restatement of its financial statements for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011 and the three 
months ended December 31, 2011, we also restated our historical financial statements for the same periods. While the 
circumstances leading to the restatement occurred before our spin-off from Ralcorp, any restatement may affect investor 
confidence in our financial disclosures and may result in a decline in stock price and stockholder lawsuits related to the 
restatement. 
Although we have completed the restatement, we cannot guarantee that we will not receive inquiries from the Securities 
and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) or the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) regarding our restated financial statements or 
matters relating thereto. Any future inquiries from the SEC or NYSE as a result of the restatement of our historical financial 
statements will, regardless of the outcome, likely consume a significant amount of our resources in addition to those resources 
already consumed in connection with the restatement itself. The delays caused by the restatement could also continue to impact 
our ability to meet third party time-sensitive contractual obligations.9
We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, and if we are unable to achieve 
and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in our financial 
statements and our company, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. 
In order to provide reliable financial reports and operate successfully as a publicly traded company, we must maintain 
effective control over our financial reporting. In connection with the restatement of certain financial statements, Ralcorp 
management determined that a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting existed as of September 30, 2011 
and December 31, 2011 for Ralcorp. As a wholly-owned subsidiary of Ralcorp, the material weakness also existed at Post for 
these periods. On February 3, 2012, the Company became a stand-alone independent public company through the completion 
of a tax free spin-off from Ralcorp. From that time forward Post's management team became responsible for establishing its 
own disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. 
We believe that this material weakness does not exist as of September 30, 2012. However, we can make no assurances that 
additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies may not subsequently arise. If we fail to achieve and maintain 
effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, it could result in additional significant 
deficiencies or material weaknesses, cause us to fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations, result in material misstatements 
in our financial statements, restatement of financial statements, sanctions or investigations by regulatory authorities, or loss of 
investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact 
the trading price of our stock.
Labor strikes or work stoppages by our employees could harm our business.
A significant number of our full-time production and maintenance employees are covered by collective bargaining 
agreements. A dispute with a union or employees represented by a union could result in production interruptions caused by 
work stoppages. If a strike or work stoppage were to occur, our results of operations could be adversely affected. 
In the event of a work stoppage, we have contingency plans in place that would utilize the plant capabilities in conjunction 
with our ability to manufacture cereals in other locations to mitigate disruption to the business. However, there are limitations 
inherent in any plan to mitigate disruption to our business in the event of a work stoppage and, particularly in the case of a 
prolonged work stoppage, there can be no assurance that it would not have a material adverse effect on our results of 
operations.
Impairment in the carrying value of intangible assets could negatively impact our net worth. If our goodwill, indefinitelived intangible assets, or other long-term assets become impaired, we will be required to record additional impairment 
charges, which may be significant.
The carrying value of intangible assets represents the fair value of goodwill, trademarks, trade names and other acquired 
intangibles. Intangibles and goodwill expected to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows are not amortized, but our 
management reviews them for impairment on an annual basis or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that 
their carrying value may not be recoverable. Impairments to intangible assets may be caused by factors outside our control, 
such as increasing competitive pricing pressures, lower than expected revenue and profit growth rates, changes in industry 
EBITDA and revenue multiples, changes in discount rates based on changes in cost of capital (interest rates, etc.) or the 
bankruptcy of a significant customer. These factors, along with other internal and external factors, could negatively impact our 
net worth and could have a significant impact on our fair valuation determination, which could then result in a material 
impairment charge in our results of operations. During fiscal years 2011 and 2010 we incurred impairment losses related to 
goodwill and trademark intangible assets, and we could have additional impairments in the future. See further discussion of 
these impairment losses in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and 
Notes 2 and 4 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” of our Audited Consolidated Financial Statements.
If we pursue strategic acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures, we may not be able to successfully consummate favorable 
transactions or successfully integrate acquired businesses.
From time to time, we may evaluate potential acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures that would further our strategic 
objectives. With respect to acquisitions, we may not be able to achieve expected returns and other benefits as a result of 
integration challenges. With respect to proposed divestitures of assets or businesses, we may encounter difficulty in finding 
acquirers or alternative exit strategies on terms that are favorable to us, which could delay the accomplishment of our strategic 
objectives, or our divestiture activities may require us to recognize impairment charges. Companies or operations acquired or 
joint ventures created may not be profitable or may not achieve sales levels and profitability that justify the investments made. 
Our corporate development activities may present financial and operational risks, including diversion of management attention 
from existing core businesses, integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, and adverse effects on 
existing business relationships with suppliers and customers. Future acquisitions could also result in potentially dilutive 
issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities and/or amortization expenses related to certain 10
intangible assets and increased operating expenses, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial 
condition.
Unsuccessful implementation of business strategies to reduce costs may adversely affect our results of operations.
Many of our costs, such as raw materials, energy and freight, are outside our control. Therefore, we must seek to reduce 
costs in other areas, such as operating efficiency. If we are not able to complete projects which are designed to reduce costs and 
increase operating efficiency on time or within budget, our operating profits may be adversely impacted. In addition, if the costsaving initiatives we have implemented or any future cost-saving initiatives do not generate the expected cost savings and 
synergies, our results of operations may be adversely affected.
Our inability to raise prices may adversely affect our results of operations.
Our ability to raise prices for our products may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including but not limited to 
industry supply, market demand, and promotional activity by competitors. If we are unable to increase prices for our products 
as may be necessary to cover cost increases, our results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, price increases 
typically generate lower volumes as customers then purchase fewer units. If these losses are greater than expected or if we lose 
distribution as a result of a price increase, our results of operations could be adversely affected.
Loss of a significant customer may adversely affect our results of operations.
A limited number of customer accounts represent a large percentage of our consolidated net sales. Our top ten customers 
represent approximately 55% of our gross sales for fiscal year 2012, and our largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., accounted 
for approximately 21% of our net sales in each of fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010. The success of our business depends, in part, on 
our ability to maintain our level of sales and product distribution through high-volume food retailers, super centers and mass 
merchandisers. The competition to supply products to these high-volume stores is intense. Currently, we do not have long-term 
supply agreements with a substantial number of our customers, including our largest customers. These high-volume stores and 
mass merchandisers frequently reevaluate the products they carry. If a major customer elected to stop carrying one or more of 
our products, our sales may be adversely affected.
Consolidation among the retail grocery and foodservice industries may hurt profit margins.
Over the past several years, the retail grocery and foodservice industries have undergone significant consolidations and 
mass merchandisers are gaining market share. As this trend continues and such customers grow larger, they may seek to use 
their position to improve their profitability through improved efficiency, lower pricing, increased reliance on their own brand 
name products, increased emphasis on generic and other value brands, and increased promotional programs. If we are unable to 
respond to these requirements, our profitability or volume growth could be negatively impacted. Additionally, if the surviving 
entity is not a customer, we may lose significant business once held with the acquired retailer.
If our food products become adulterated, misbranded, or mislabeled, we might need to recall those items and may 
experience product liability claims if consumers are injured.
Selling food products involves a number of legal and other risks, including product contamination, spoilage, product 
tampering, allergens, or other adulteration. We may need to recall some or all of our products if they become adulterated, 
mislabeled or misbranded. This could result in destruction of product inventory, negative publicity, temporary plant closings, 
and substantial costs of compliance or remediation. Should consumption of any product cause injury, we may be liable for 
monetary damages as a result of a judgment against us. In addition, adverse publicity, including claims, whether or not valid, 
that our products or ingredients are unsafe or of poor quality may discourage consumers from buying our products or cause 
production and delivery disruptions. Any of these events, including a significant product liability judgment against us, could 
result in a loss of consumer confidence in our food products. This could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, 
results of operations or cash flows.
Disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Our ability, including manufacturing or distribution capabilities, and that of our suppliers, business partners and contract 
manufacturers, to make, move and sell products is critical to our success. Damage or disruption to our or their manufacturing or 
distribution capabilities due to weather, including any potential effects of climate change, natural disaster, fire or explosion, 
terrorism, pandemics, strikes, repairs or enhancements at our facilities, or other reasons, could impair our ability to manufacture 
or sell our products. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively 
manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as 
require additional resources to restore our supply chain 
Termination of our material licenses would have a material adverse effect on our business.
We manufacture and market our Pebbles™ products in the United States and several other locations pursuant to a longterm intellectual property license agreement. This license gives us the exclusive right (subject only to an exception regarding 
the sale of similar products in amusement and theme parks) to use The Flintstones characters in connection with breakfast 
cereal and to sell all Pebbles™ branded cereal products in those regions. If we were to breach any material term of this license 
agreement and not timely cure the breach, the licensor could terminate the agreement. If the licensor were to terminate our 
rights to use the Flintstones characters or the Pebbles™ brand for this or any other reason, the loss of such rights could have a 
material adverse effect on our business.
Global capital and credit market issues could negatively affect our liquidity, increase our costs of borrowing and disrupt 
the operations of our suppliers and customers.
U.S. and global credit markets have, from time to time, experienced significant dislocations and liquidity disruptions which 
caused the spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. These circumstances materially impacted liquidity in 
the debt markets, making financing terms for borrowers less attractive, and in certain cases resulted in the unavailability of 
certain types of debt financing. Events affecting the credit markets have also had an adverse effect on other financial markets in 
the U.S., which may make it more difficult or costly for us to raise capital through the issuance of common stock or other 
equity securities or refinance our existing debt, sell our assets or borrow more money if necessary. Our business could also be 
negatively impacted if our suppliers or customers experience disruptions resulting from tighter capital and credit markets or a 
slowdown in the general economy. Any of these risks could impair our ability to fund our operations or limit our ability to 
expand our business or increase our interest expense, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.
Changing currency exchange rates may adversely affect our earnings and financial position.
We have operations and assets in the United States and Canada. Our consolidated financial statements are presented in 
U.S. dollars; therefore, we must translate our foreign assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses into U.S. dollars at applicable 
exchange rates. Consequently, fluctuations in the value of the Canadian dollar may negatively affect the value of these items in 
our consolidated financial statements. To the extent we fail to manage our foreign currency exposure adequately, we may suffer 
losses in value of our net foreign currency investment, and our consolidated results of operations and financial position may be 
negatively affected.
Violations of laws or regulations, as well as new laws or regulations or changes to existing laws or regulations, could 
adversely affect our business.
The food production and marketing industry is subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations, 
including food safety requirements related to the ingredients, manufacture, processing, storage, marketing, advertising, 
labeling, and distribution of our products as well as those related to worker health and workplace safety. Our activities, both in 
and outside of the United States, are subject to extensive regulation. In the U.S. we are regulated by, among other federal and 
state authorities, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, U.S. Federal Trade Commission and the U.S. Departments of 
Commerce and Labor as well as by similar authorities abroad. Governmental regulations also affect taxes and levies, healthcare 
costs, energy usage, immigration and other labor issues, all of which may have a direct or indirect effect on our business or 
those of our customers or suppliers. In addition, we market and advertise our products and could be the target of claims relating 
to alleged false or deceptive advertising under federal, state, and foreign laws and regulations and may be subject to initiatives 
to limit or prohibit the marketing and advertising of our products to children. Changes in these laws or regulations or the 
introduction of new laws or regulations could increase the costs of doing business for us or our customers or suppliers or 
restrict our actions, causing our results of operations to be adversely affected. Further, if we are found to be out of compliance 
with applicable laws and regulations in these areas, we could be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, or 
recalls, as well as potential criminal sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business.
As a publicly traded company, we are subject to changing rules and regulations of federal and state government as well as 
the stock exchange on which our common stock is listed. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight 
Board, the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange, have issued a significant number of new and increasingly complex 
requirements and regulations over the course of the last several years and continue to develop additional regulations and 
requirements in response to laws enacted by Congress. Our efforts to comply with these requirements may result in an increase 
in expenses and a diversion of management’s time from other business activities.
We may not be able to operate successfully if we lose key personnel, are unable to hire qualified additional personnel or 
experience turnover of our management team.
We are highly dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel to operate and expand our business. If we 
lose one or more members of our senior management team, or if we fail to attract new employees, our business and financial 
position, results of operations or cash flows could be harmed.12
Changes in weather conditions, natural disasters and other events beyond our control can adversely affect our results of 
operations.
Changes in weather conditions and natural disasters such as floods, droughts, frosts, earthquakes, hurricanes, fires or 
pestilence, may affect the cost and supply of commodities and raw materials, including tree nuts, corn syrup, sugar, corn and 
wheat. Additionally, these events can result in reduced supplies of raw materials and longer recoveries of usable raw materials. 
Competing manufacturers can be affected differently by weather conditions and natural disasters depending on the location of 
their suppliers and operations. Failure to take adequate steps to reduce the likelihood or mitigate the potential impact of such 
events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, particularly when a product is sourced from a single location, could 
adversely affect our business and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain.
We may experience losses or be subject to increased funding requirements and expenses to our qualified pension plans, 
which could negatively impact our cash flows and/or profits.
We maintain a qualified defined benefit plan in the U.S. and Canada and we are obligated to ensure that these plans are 
funded in accordance with applicable regulations. In the event the stock market deteriorates, the funds in which we invest do 
not perform according to expectations, or the valuation of the projected benefit obligation increases due to changes in interest 
rates or other factors, we may be required to make significant cash contributions to these plans and recognize increased expense 
within our financial statements.
Technology failures or delays could disrupt our operations and negatively impact our business.
We increasingly rely on information technology systems to process, transmit, and store electronic information. For 
example, our production and distribution facilities and inventory management utilize information technology to increase 
efficiencies and limit costs. Furthermore, a significant portion of the communications between our personnel, customers and 
suppliers depends on information technology. Our information technology systems may be vulnerable to a variety of 
interruptions due to events beyond our control, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, 
telecommunications failures, computer viruses, hackers and other security issues. Such interruptions could negatively impact 
our business. 
Currently, Ralcorp is providing the majority of our information technology services under the Transition Services 
Agreement we entered into in connection with our separation from Ralcorp, and we remain substantially dependent on Ralcorp 
to provide these services until we migrate to our own systems. If Ralcorp is unable to provide these services in accordance 
with the Transition Services Agreement, or if there are delays in migrating to our own systems, our business could be adversely 
affected. 
Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products and 
brands.
We consider our intellectual property rights, particularly our trademarks, but also our patents, trade secrets, copyrights and 
licenses, to be a significant and valuable aspect of our business. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a 
combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements, third party nondisclosure 
and assignment agreements and the policing of third party misuses of our intellectual property. Our failure to obtain or maintain 
adequate protection of our intellectual property rights, or any change in law or other changes that serve to lessen or remove the 
current legal protections for intellectual property, may diminish our competitiveness and could materially harm our business.
We face the risk of claims that we have infringed third parties’ intellectual property rights. Any claims of intellectual 
property infringement, even those without merit, could be expensive and time consuming to defend; cause us to cease making, 
licensing or using products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; require us to redesign or rebrand our products 
or packaging, if feasible; divert management’s attention and resources; or require us to enter into royalty or licensing 
agreements in order to obtain the right to use a third party’s intellectual property. Any royalty or licensing agreements, if 
required, may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Additionally, a successful claim of infringement against us 
could result in our being required to pay significant damages, enter into costly license or royalty agreements, or stop the sale of 
certain products, any of which could have a negative impact on our operating profits and harm our future prospects.
We are subject to environmental laws and regulations that can impose significant costs and expose us to potential 
financial liabilities.
We are subject to extensive and frequently changing federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the 
protection of human health and the environment, including those limiting the discharge and release of pollutants into the 
environment and those regulating the transport, use, treatment, storage, disposal and remediation of, and exposure to, solid and 
hazardous wastes and materials. Certain environmental laws and regulations can impose joint and several liability without 
regard to fault on responsible parties, including past and present owners and operators of sites, related to cleaning up sites at 
which hazardous wastes or materials were disposed or released. Failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations 13
could result in severe fines and penalties by governments or courts of law. In addition, various current and likely future federal, 
state, local and foreign laws and regulations could regulate the emission of greenhouse gases, particularly carbon dioxide and 
methane. We cannot predict the impact that such regulation may have, or that climate change may otherwise have, on our 
business.
Future events, such as new or more stringent environmental laws and regulations, any new environmental claims, the 
discovery of currently unknown environmental conditions requiring response action, or more vigorous enforcement or a new 
interpretation of existing environmental laws and regulations, might require us to incur additional costs that could have a 
material adverse effect on our financial results.
Pending and future litigation may lead us to incur significant costs.
We are, or may become, party to various lawsuits and claims arising in the normal course of business, which may include 
lawsuits or claims relating to contracts, intellectual property, product recalls, product liability, employment matters, 
environmental matters or other aspects of our business. In addition, we may in the future be subject to additional litigation or 
other proceedings or actions arising in relation to the restatement of our historical financial statements. The defense of these 
lawsuits may divert our management’s attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. In 
addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements or become subject to injunctions or other equitable 
remedies, that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows or results of operations. The outcome 
of litigation is often difficult to predict, and the outcome of pending or future litigation may have a material adverse effect on 
our financial position, cash flows or results of operations.
Risks Related to the Separation from Ralcorp and Recent Financing Transactions
We have substantial debt and high leverage, which could adversely affect our business.
We have a significant amount of debt. We had $945.6 million of total debt as of September 30, 2012. Our overall leverage 
and the terms of our financing arrangements could: 
• limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures and 
acquisitions;
• make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness;
• limit our ability to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us or at all;
• limit our flexibility to plan for and to adjust to changing business and market conditions in the industry in which 
we operate, and increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;
• require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make interest and principal 
payments on our debt, thereby limiting the availability of our cash flow to fund future investments, capital 
expenditures, working capital, business activities and other general corporate requirements;
• limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, for capital expenditures, to fund growth or for 
general corporate purposes, even when necessary to maintain adequate liquidity, particularly if any ratings 
assigned to our debt securities by rating organizations were revised downward; and
• subject us to higher levels of indebtedness than our competitors, which may cause a competitive disadvantage and 
may reduce our flexibility in responding to increased competition.
In addition, we incurred, in connection with the separation, a significant amount of debt for which we did not receive any 
cash proceeds, but which instead were issued to Ralcorp. As a result of the indebtedness we incurred in connection with the 
separation, the amount of leverage in our business has significantly increased. This has increased the riskiness of our business 
and of an investment in our common stock.
Our ability to meet expense and debt service obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by 
financial, business, economic and other factors, including potential changes in consumer preferences, the success of product 
and marketing innovation and pressure from competitors. If we do not generate enough cash to pay our debt service 
obligations, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell our assets, borrow more money or raise equity.
Our credit facilities bear interest at variable rates. If market interest rates increase, variable rate debt will create higher debt 
service requirements, which could adversely affect our cash flow.
The agreements governing our debt, including our credit facilities and the indenture governing our senior notes, contain 
various covenants that impose restrictions on us that may affect our ability to operate our business.
The agreements governing our credit facilities and our senior notes contain covenants that, among other things, limit our 
ability to:14
• borrow money or guarantee debt; 
• create liens; 
• pay dividends on or redeem or repurchase stock; 
• make specified types of investments and acquisitions; 
• enter into or permit to exist contractual limits on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us;
• enter into new lines of business; 
• enter into transactions with affiliates; and 
• sell assets or merge with other companies. 
These restrictions on our ability to operate our business could harm our business by, among other things, limiting our 
ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition and other corporate opportunities.
Various risks, uncertainties and events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with these covenants. Failure 
to comply with any of the covenants in our existing or future financing agreements could result in a default under those 
agreements and under other agreements containing cross-default provisions.
A default would permit lenders to accelerate the maturity of the debt under these agreements and to foreclose upon any 
collateral securing the debt. Under these circumstances, we might not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy all of 
our obligations, including our obligations under the senior notes. In addition, the limitations imposed by financing agreements 
on our ability to incur additional debt and to take other actions might significantly impair our ability to obtain other financing.
Our historical financial results as a business segment of Ralcorp may not be representative of our results as a separate, 
stand-alone company.
Much of the historical financial information we have included in this document has been derived from the consolidated 
financial statements and accounting records of Ralcorp (and, for periods before August 4, 2008, of Kraft). Accordingly, our 
historical financial information does not necessarily reflect what our financial position, results of operations or cash flows 
would have been had we operated as a separate, stand-alone company during the periods presented or those that we may 
achieve in the future primarily as a result of the following factors:
• Prior to the separation, our business was operated by Ralcorp as part of its broader corporate organization, rather 
than as an independent company. Ralcorp or one of its affiliates performed various corporate functions for us, 
including, but not limited to, legal, treasury, accounting, auditing, risk management, information technology, 
human resources, corporate affairs, tax administration, certain governance functions (including compliance with 
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and internal audit) and external reporting. Our historical financial results include 
allocations of corporate expenses from Ralcorp for these and similar functions. These allocations may be less than 
the comparable expenses we incur as a separate publicly traded company.
• Prior to the separation, our business was integrated with the other businesses of Ralcorp. Historically, we have 
shared economies of scope and scale in costs, employees, vendor relationships and customer relationships. The 
loss of the benefits of doing business as part of Ralcorp could have an adverse effect on our results of operations 
and financial condition.
• Generally, our working capital requirements and capital for our general corporate purposes, including advertising 
and trade promotions, research and development and capital expenditures, have historically been satisfied as part 
of the corporate-wide cash management policies of Ralcorp. In connection with the separation, we incurred 
substantial indebtedness, as discussed above.
• The cost of capital for our business may be higher than Ralcorp’s cost of capital prior to the separation because 
Ralcorp’s cost of debt prior to the separation may have been lower than ours following the separation.
We may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expected to achieve from our separation from Ralcorp.
By separating from Ralcorp there is a risk that our company may be more susceptible to market fluctuations and other 
adverse events than we would have been if we were still a part of Ralcorp. As part of Ralcorp we were able to enjoy certain 
benefits from Ralcorp’s operating diversity and purchasing and borrowing leverage. We may not be able to achieve some or all 
of the benefits that we expected to achieve as a stand-alone, independent company.15
Potential liabilities may arise due to fraudulent transfer considerations, which would adversely affect our financial 
condition and our results of operations.
In connection with the separation, Ralcorp undertook financing transactions which, along with the separation and the 
financing transactions involving us, may be subject to federal and state fraudulent conveyance and transfer laws. If a court were 
to determine under these laws that, at the time of the separation, any entity involved in these transactions or the separation:
• was insolvent, 
• was rendered insolvent by reason of the separation, 
• had remaining assets constituting unreasonably small capital, or
• intended to incur, or believed it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay these debts as they matured,
the court could void the separation, in whole or in part, as a fraudulent conveyance or transfer. The court could then require our 
shareholders to return to Ralcorp some or all of the shares of our common stock issued pursuant to the separation, or require 
Ralcorp or us, as the case may be, to fund liabilities of the other company for the benefit of creditors. The measure of 
insolvency will vary depending upon the jurisdiction whose law is being applied. Generally, however, an entity would be 
considered insolvent if the fair value of its assets were less than the amount of its liabilities or if it incurred debt beyond its 
ability to repay the debt as it matures.
We may have a significant indemnity obligation to Ralcorp if the separation and/or certain related transactions are treated 
as a taxable transaction.
We are a party to a Tax Allocation Agreement with Ralcorp, which sets out each party’s rights and obligations with respect 
to federal, state, local and foreign taxes for periods before and after the separation (including taxes that may arise if the 
separation and/or certain related transactions do not qualify for tax-free treatment under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as 
amended, or the “Code”) and related matters such as the filing of tax returns and the conduct of the parties in IRS and other 
audits.
Ralcorp received a private letter ruling from the IRS to the effect that, among other things, the separation and certain 
related transactions qualify for tax-free treatment under the Code. In addition, Ralcorp obtained an opinion from its legal 
counsel substantially to the effect that, among other things, the separation and certain related transactions qualify for tax-free 
treatment under the Code. The private letter ruling from the IRS is not binding on the IRS if the factual representations or 
assumptions made in the letter ruling request are untrue or incomplete in any material respect. Furthermore, the IRS will not 
rule on whether a distribution satisfies certain requirements necessary to obtain tax-free treatment under the Code. Rather, the 
ruling is based upon representations by Ralcorp that these conditions have been satisfied, and any inaccuracy in such 
representations could invalidate the ruling. 
The opinion of counsel referred to above addressed all of the requirements necessary for the separation and certain related 
transactions to obtain tax-free treatment under the Code, relied on the IRS private letter ruling as to matters covered by the 
ruling, and was based on, among other things, certain assumptions and representations made by Ralcorp and us, which if 
incorrect or inaccurate in any material respect would jeopardize the conclusions reached by counsel in such opinion. The 
opinion is not binding on the IRS or the courts and the IRS or the courts may not agree with the opinion.
Notwithstanding receipt by Ralcorp of the private letter ruling and opinion of counsel, the IRS could determine that the 
separation and/or certain related transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of the 
representations, assumptions or undertakings that were included in the request for the private letter ruling is false or has been 
violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion that are not covered by the IRS ruling. Furthermore, events 
subsequent to the distribution could cause Ralcorp to recognize gain on the separation, including as a result of Section 355(e) of 
the Code.
Pursuant to the Tax Allocation Agreement, in certain cases, we will be required to indemnify Ralcorp for taxes resulting 
from the separation and/or certain related transactions not qualifying for tax-free treatment for United States federal income tax 
purposes. Pursuant to the Tax Allocation Agreement, we will be required to indemnify Ralcorp for losses and taxes of Ralcorp 
resulting from the breach of certain covenants made by us and for certain taxable gain that could be recognized by Ralcorp, 
including as a result of certain acquisitions of our stock or assets. Ralcorp is obligated to indemnify us in certain cases under 
the Tax Allocation Agreement, including in relevant part for taxes and certain losses incurred by us if the separation and certain 
related transactions were to fail to qualify for tax-free treatment because of actions or failures to act by Ralcorp or any of its 
affiliates. If we are required to indemnify Ralcorp under the circumstances set forth in the Tax Allocation Agreement, we may 
be subject to substantial liabilities, which could materially adversely affect our financial position. Our indemnification 
obligations to Ralcorp are not limited by any maximum amount.16
The tax rules applicable to the separation and our indemnification obligations contained in the Tax Allocation Agreement 
may restrict us from taking certain actions, engaging in certain corporate transactions or from raising equity capital 
beyond certain thresholds for a period of time after the separation.
The distribution of Post would be taxable to Ralcorp if such distribution was part of a “plan or series of related 
transactions” pursuant to which one or more persons acquire directly or indirectly stock representing a 50% or greater interest 
(by vote or value) in Ralcorp or Post. Under current U.S. federal income tax law, acquisitions that occur during the four-year 
period that begins two years before the date of the distribution are presumed to occur pursuant to a plan or series of related 
transactions, unless it is established that the acquisition is not pursuant to a plan or series of transactions that includes the 
distribution. U.S. Treasury regulations currently in effect generally provide that whether an acquisition and a distribution are 
part of a plan is determined based on all of the facts and circumstances, including, but not limited to, specific factors described 
in the U.S. Treasury regulations. In addition, the U.S. Treasury regulations provide several “safe harbors” for acquisitions that 
are not considered to be part of a plan.
These rules and our indemnification obligations contained in the Tax Allocation Agreement limit our ability during the 
two-year period following the distribution to enter into certain transactions that may be advantageous to us and our 
shareholders, particularly issuing equity securities to satisfy financing needs, repurchasing equity securities, disposing of 
certain assets, engaging in mergers and acquisitions and, under certain circumstances, acquiring businesses or assets with 
equity securities or agreeing to be acquired.
Our ability to operate our business effectively may suffer if we do not establish our own financial, administrative and other 
support functions in order to operate as a separate, stand-alone company, and the transition services Ralcorp has agreed 
to provide may not be sufficient for our needs. 
Prior to the separation, we relied on financial, administrative and other resources, including the business relationships, of 
Ralcorp to support the operation of our business. Ralcorp is providing us with certain transition services for up to 24 months 
following the separation, but we may not be able to adequately replace those resources or replace them at the same cost. We 
may not be able to successfully put in place the financial, operational and managerial resources necessary to operate 
independently within the time periods prescribed by the Transition Services Agreement. Unanticipated delays in transitioning 
from the services Ralcorp provides could lead to duplicative costs and other inefficiencies. Any failure or significant downtime 
in our own financial or administrative systems or in Ralcorp's financial or administrative systems during the transition period 
could impact our results or prevent us from performing other administrative services and financial reporting on a timely basis 
and could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.
The agreements we have entered into with Ralcorp involve conflicts of interest and therefore may have materially 
disadvantageous terms to us.
We have entered into certain agreements with Ralcorp, including the Separation and Distribution Agreement, Tax 
Allocation Agreement, Employee Matters Agreement and Transition Services Agreement which set forth the main terms of the 
separation and provide a framework for our initial relationship with Ralcorp following the separation. The terms of these 
agreements and the separation were determined at a time when we were still part of Ralcorp and therefore involve conflicts of 
interest. Accordingly, such agreements may not reflect terms that could have been reached on an arm’s-length basis between 
unaffiliated parties, which could have been materially more favorable to us.
We may incur material costs and expenses as a result of our separation from Ralcorp, which could adversely affect our 
profitability.
As a result of our separation from Ralcorp, we may incur costs and expenses greater than those we incurred prior to the 
separation. These increased costs and expenses may arise from various factors, including financial reporting, costs associated 
with complying with federal securities laws (including compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002), tax administration, 
and legal and human resources related functions, and it is possible that these costs will be material to our business.
Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected if we are unable to negotiate terms 
that are as favorable as those Ralcorp has received when we replace contracts after the separation.
Prior to completion of the separation, certain functions (such as purchasing, information systems, customer service, 
logistics and distribution) for our business generally had been performed under Ralcorp’s centralized systems and, in some 
cases, under contracts that were also used for Ralcorp’s other businesses and which were not assigned to us. We may not be 
able to negotiate terms that are as favorable as those Ralcorp received as we replace these contracts with our own agreements.17
If we are unable to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or our internal control over
financial reporting is not effective, the reliability of our financial statements may be questioned and our stock price may 
suffer.
Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires any company subject to the reporting requirements of the 
U.S. securities laws to do a comprehensive evaluation of its and its consolidated subsidiaries’ internal control over financial 
reporting. To comply with this statute, we will eventually be required to document and test our internal control procedures, our 
management will be required to assess and issue a report concerning our internal control over financial reporting, and our 
independent auditors will be required to issue an opinion on their audit of our internal control over financial reporting. Our 
management report on internal controls and our auditors' report are not contained in this report due to a transition period 
established under SEC rules for newly public companies. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management 
to assess our internal control over financial reporting are complex and require significant documentation, testing and possible 
remediation to meet the detailed standards under the rules. During the course of its testing, our management may identify 
material weaknesses or deficiencies which may not be remedied in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley 
Act of 2002. If our management cannot favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or our 
auditors identify material weaknesses in our internal controls, investor confidence in our financial results may weaken, and our 
stock price may suffer.
Risks Related to Our Common Stock
Your percentage ownership in Post may be diluted in the future.
As with any publicly traded company, your percentage ownership in Post may be diluted in the future because of equity 
issuances for acquisitions, capital market transactions or otherwise, including equity awards that we expect will be granted to 
our directors, officers and employees and the accelerated vesting of other equity awards. For a more detailed description of the 
stock incentive plan, see “Executive Compensation.”
The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile.
The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including in response to the risk 
factors listed in this prospectus or for reasons unrelated to our specific performance, such as reports by industry analysts, 
investor perceptions, or negative developments relating to our customers, competitors or suppliers, as well as general economic 
and industry conditions.
Provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws, provisions of Missouri law, and our shareholder protection rights 
agreement may prevent or delay an acquisition of our company, which could decrease the trading price of our common 
stock.
Our articles of incorporation, bylaws and Missouri law contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover 
practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive and to encourage prospective 
acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include, among 
others:
• the board of directors is divided into three classes with staggered terms;
• the board of directors fixes the number of members on the board;
• elimination of the rights of our shareholders to act by written consent (except when such consent is unanimous) 
and to call shareholder meetings;
• rules regarding how shareholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at shareholder 
meetings;
• the right of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval;
• supermajority vote requirements for certain amendments to our articles of incorporation and bylaws;
• anti-takeover provisions of Missouri law which may prevent us from engaging in a business combination with an 
interested shareholder, or which may deter third parties from acquiring our common stock above certain 
thresholds; and
• limitations on the right of shareholders to remove directors.
We have also entered into a shareholder protection rights agreement which gives our shareholders certain rights that could 
deter a change of control of us in a transaction not approved by our board of directors