The following discussions about the Company’s market risk 
disclosures involve forward-looking statements. Actual results 
could differ from those projected in the forward-looking 
statements. The Company is exposed to market risk related 
to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, 
and commodity prices
Interest Rate Risk: The fair value of the Company’s cash and 
cash equivalents at April 30, 2012, approximates carrying value. 
Exposure to interest rate risk on the Company’s long-term debt 
is mitigated due to fixed-rate maturities. In an effort to achieve 
a mix of variable versus fixed-rate debt under favorable market 
conditions at the time, the Company entered into an interest 
rate swap in 2011 on a portion of fixed-rate Senior Notes. The 
Company received a fixed rate and paid variable rates based on 
the London Interbank Offered Rate. The interest rate swap was 
designated as a fair value hedge and used to hedge against changes 
in the fair value of the debt. The instrument was recognized at 
fair value on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at April 30, 2011, and 
changes in the fair value were recognized in interest expense. 
The change in the fair value of the interest rate swap was offset 
by the change in the fair value of the long-term debt. In August 
2011, the Company terminated this interest rate swap prior to 
maturity. As a result of the early termination, the Company 
received $27.0 million in cash, which included $3.1 million of 
interest receivable, and will realize a $23.9 million reduction of 
future interest expense through November 1, 2018, the maturity 
date of the underlying debt. The unamortized benefit at April 30, 
2012, was $21.9 million and is reflected as an increase in the 
long-term debt balance.
In August 2011, the Company also entered into a forward-starting 
interest rate swap to partially hedge the risk of an increase in 
the benchmark interest rate during the period leading up to the 
$750.0 million 3.50 percent Notes public offering. The interest 
rate swap was designated as a cash flow hedge. The mark-tomarket gains or losses on the swap were deferred and included as 
a component of accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income 
to the extent effective, and reclassified to interest expense in the 
period during which the hedged transaction affected earnings. In 
October 2011, in conjunction with the pricing of the 3.50 percent 
Notes, the Company terminated the interest rate swap prior to 
maturity resulting in a loss of $6.2 million. The resulting loss will 
be recognized in interest expense over the life of the related debt. 
The ineffective portion of the hedge was reclassified to interest 
expense upon termination of the swap and was not material.
Based on the Company’s overall interest rate exposure as of and 
during the year ended April 30, 2012, including derivatives and other 
instruments sensitive to interest rates, a hypothetical 10 percent 
movement in interest rates would not materially affect the Company’s 
results of operations. In measuring interest rate risk by the amount 
of net change in the fair value of the Company’s financial liabilities, 
a hypothetical one percent decrease in interest rates at April 30, 
2012, would increase the fair value of the Company’s long-term 
debt by approximately $117.0 million.
Foreign Currency Exchange Risk: The Company has operations 
outside the U.S. with foreign currency denominated assets 
and liabilities, primarily denominated in Canadian currency. 
Because the Company has foreign currency denominated assets 
and liabilities, financial exposure may result, primarily from 
the timing of transactions and the movement of exchange rates. The foreign currency balance sheet exposures as of 
April 30, 2012, are not expected to result in a significant 
impact on future earnings or cash flows.
The Company utilizes foreign currency exchange forwards 
and options contracts to manage the price volatility of foreign 
currency exchange fluctuations on future cash payments primarily 
related to purchases of certain raw materials, finished goods, and 
fixed assets in Canada. The contracts generally have maturities of 
less than one year. Instruments currently used to manage foreign 
currency exchange exposures do not meet the requirements for 
hedge accounting treatment and the change in value of these 
instruments is immediately recognized in cost of products sold. 
If the contract qualifies for hedge accounting treatment, to the 
extent the hedge is deemed effective, the associated mark-tomarket gains and losses are deferred and included as a component 
of accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income. These gains 
or losses are reclassified to earnings in the period the contract is 
executed. The ineffective portion of these contracts is immediately 
recognized in earnings. Based on the Company’s hedged foreign 
currency positions as of April 30, 2012, a hypothetical 10 percent 
change in exchange rates would not result in a material loss 
of fair value.
Revenues from customers outside the U.S. represented nine 
percent of net sales during 2012. Thus, certain revenues and 
expenses have been, and are expected to be, subject to the 
effect of foreign currency fluctuations, and these fluctuations 
may have an impact on operating results.
Commodity Price Risk: Raw materials and other commodities 
used by the Company are subject to price volatility caused by 
supply and demand conditions, political and economic variables, 
weather, investor speculation, and other unpredictable factors. 
To manage the volatility related to anticipated commodity purchases, the Company uses futures and options with maturities 
generally less than one year. Certain of these instruments are 
designated as cash flow hedges. The mark-to-market gains or 
losses on qualifying hedges are included in accumulated other 
comprehensive (loss) income to the extent effective, and reclassified to cost of products sold in the period during which the 
hedged transaction affects earnings. The mark-to-market gains 
or losses on nonqualifying, excluded, and ineffective portions 
of hedges are recognized in cost of products sold immediately.
The following sensitivity analysis presents the Company’s 
potential loss of fair value resulting from a hypothetical 
10 percent change in market prices.
The estimated fair value was determined using quoted market 
prices and was based on the Company’s net derivative position 
by commodity at each quarter end during the fiscal year. The 
calculations are not intended to represent actual losses in fair 
value that the Company expects to incur. In practice, as markets 
move, the Company actively manages its risk and adjusts hedging 
strategies as appropriate. The commodities hedged have a high 
inverse correlation to price changes of the derivative commodity 
instrument; thus, the Company would expect that any gain or 
loss in the estimated fair value of its derivatives would generally 
be offset by an increase or decrease in the estimated fair 
value of the underlying exposure


