The following discussions about our market risk disclosures 
involve forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ 
from those projected in the forward-looking statements. We 
are exposed to market risk related to changes in interest rates, 
foreign currency exchange rates, and commodity prices.
Interest Rate Risk: The fair value of our cash and cash 
equivalents at April 30, 2015, approximates carrying value. 
We are exposed to interest rate risk with regards to existing 
debt consisting of fixed- and variable-rate maturities. Our 
interest rate exposure primarily includes U.S. Treasury rates, 
London Interbank Offered Rate, and commercial paper rates 
in the U.S.
We utilize derivative instruments to manage changes in the 
fair value of our debt. Interest rate swaps mitigate the risk 
associated with the underlying hedged item. At the inception 
of the contract, the instrument is evaluated and documented 
for hedge accounting treatment. If the contract is designated as 
a cash flow hedge, the swap would be recognized at fair value 
on the balance sheet and the mark-to-market gains or losses 
on the swap are deferred and included as a component of 
accumulated other comprehensive loss to the extent effective, 
and reclassified to interest expense in the period during which 
the hedged transaction affects earnings. If the contract is 
designated as a fair value hedge, the swap would be recognized 
at fair value on the balance sheet, and changes in the fair value 
would be recognized in interest expense. Generally, changes in 
the fair value of the derivative are equal to changes in the fair 
value of the underlying debt and have no net impact on earnings.
In February 2015, we entered into a series of forward-starting 
interest rate swaps to partially hedge the risk of an increase in 
the benchmark interest rate during the period leading up to 
the anticipated issuance of our long-term Senior Notes. The 
interest rate swaps were designated as cash flow hedges with an 
aggregate notional amount of $1.1 billion. On March 12, 2015, 
in conjunction with the pricing of the series of Senior Notes, 
we terminated the interest rate swaps prior to maturity. 
The termination resulted in a net loss of $4.0, which will be 
amortized over the life of the remaining debt.
During 2014, we entered into an interest rate swap, designated 
as a fair value hedge, on a portion of fixed-rate Senior Notes in 
an effort to achieve a mix of variable- versus fixed-rate debt 
under favorable market conditions. On January 16, 2015, we 
terminated this interest rate swap agreement prior to maturity. 
As a result of the early termination, we received $58.1 in cash, 
which included $4.6 of accrued and prepaid interest and a 
$53.5 benefit that is deferred as a component of the carrying 
value of the long-term debt and will be recognized ratably as a 
reduction to future interest expense over the remaining life of 
the related debt. At April 30, 2015, the remaining benefit of 
$51.3 was recorded as an increase in the long-term debt balance.
Based on our overall interest rate exposure as of and during 
the year ended April 30, 2015, including derivatives and other 
instruments sensitive to interest rates, a hypothetical 10 percent 
movement in interest rates would not materially affect our 
results of operations. In measuring interest rate risk by the 
amount of net change in the fair value of our financial liabilities, 
a hypothetical 1 percent decrease in interest rates at April 30, 
2015, would increase the fair value of our long-term debt 
by $396.4.
Foreign Currency Exchange Risk: We have operations outside 
the U.S. with foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities, primarily denominated in Canadian currency. Because we 
have foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities, 
financial exposure may result, primarily from the timing of 
transactions and the movement of exchange rates. The foreign 
currency balance sheet exposures as of April 30, 2015, are not 
expected to result in a significant impact on future earnings or 
cash flows.
We utilize foreign currency exchange forwards and options 
contracts to manage the price volatility of foreign currency 
exchange fluctuations on future cash payments in Canada, 
primarily related to purchases of certain raw materials and 
finished goods. The contracts generally have maturities of less 
than one year. The change in value of these instruments is 
immediately recognized in cost of products sold. Based on 
our hedged foreign currency positions as of April 30, 2015, a 
hypothetical 10 percent change in exchange rates would result 
in a $12.7 loss of fair value.
Beginning in 2015, we elected to no longer qualify instruments 
used to manage foreign currency exchange exposures for 
hedge accounting treatment. Therefore, the gains and losses on 
all foreign currency forwards and options contracts were 
immediately recognized in cost of products sold.
Revenues from customers outside the U.S., subject to foreign 
currency exchange, represented 8 percent of net sales during 
2015. Thus, certain revenues and expenses have been, and 
are expected to be, subject to the effect of foreign currency 
fluctuations, and these fluctuations may have an impact on 
operating results.
Commodity Price Risk: We use certain raw materials and 
other commodities that are subject to price volatility caused 
by supply and demand conditions, political and economic 
variables, weather, investor speculation, and other unpredictable factors. To manage the volatility related to anticipated 
commodity purchases, we use futures and options with 
maturities of generally less than one year.
Beginning in 2015, we elected to no longer qualify commodity 
derivatives for hedge accounting treatment. As a result, the gains 
and losses on all commodity derivatives were immediately 
recognized in cost of products sold.
The following sensitivity analysis presents our potential loss 
of fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10 percent change 
in market prices related to raw material commodities.
The estimated fair value was determined using quoted 
market prices and was based on our net derivative position by 
commodity at each quarter end during the fiscal year. The 
calculations are not intended to represent actual losses in fair 
value that we expect to incur. In practice, as markets move, 
we actively manage our risk and adjust hedging strategies as 
appropriate. The commodities hedged have a high inverse 
correlation to price changes of the derivative commodity 
instrument; thus, we would expect that any gain or loss in the 
estimated fair value of its derivatives would generally be offset 
by an increase or decrease in the estimated fair value of the 
underlying exposures