In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this Report, the following risks and uncertainties could materially and adversely affect the Company’s
business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company also may impair
the Company’s business operations and financial condition.
Disruptions in the financial markets could affect our ability to fund acquisitions or to renew our outstanding credit agreements upon expiration
on commercially reasonable terms.
As of December 31, 2012, we had $900 million of outstanding indebtedness which included $393 million under our $750 million amended and restated
revolving credit facility that matures September 23, 2016, $100 million in senior notes from a private placement that matures September 30, 2013, $400
million of high yield notes that matures March 1, 2018, and $7 million of tax increment financing, capital lease obligations, and other debt. The inability to
generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our debt obligations on commercially reasonable terms, would have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the inability to access additional borrowing at commercially
reasonable terms could affect our ability to pursue additional acquisitions. United States credit markets have experienced significant dislocations and liquidity
disruptions in recent years which caused credit spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. These circumstances materially impacted
liquidity in debt markets, making financial terms for borrowers less attractive, and in certain cases have resulted in the unavailability of certain types of debt refinancing. Continued uncertainty
in the credit markets may negatively impact our ability to access additional debt financing or to refinance existing indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all.
Events affecting the credit markets could have an adverse effect on other financial markets in the United States, which may make it more difficult or costly
for us to raise capital through the issuance of common stock or other equity securities. Our business could also be negatively impacted if our suppliers or
customers experience disruptions resulting from tighter capital and credit markets, or a slowdown in the general economy. Any of these risks could impair our
ability to fund our operations or limit our ability to expand our business and could possibly increase our interest expense, which could have a material adverse
effect on our financial results.
Increases in interest rates may negatively affect earnings.
As of December 31, 2012, the aggregate principal amount of our debt instruments with exposure to interest rate risk was approximately $393.0 million, based
on the outstanding debt balance of our revolving credit facility. As a result, increases in interest rates will increase the cost of servicing our financial
instruments with exposure to interest rate risk, and could materially reduce our profitability and cash flows. As of December 31, 2012, each one percentage
point change in interest rates would result in an approximate $3.9 million change in the annual cash interest expense before any principal payment on our
financial instruments with exposure to interest rate risk.
Fluctuations in foreign currencies may adversely affect earnings.
The Company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We manage the impact of foreign currency fluctuations related to raw material
purchases through the use of foreign currency contracts. We are also exposed to fluctuations in the value of our foreign currency investment in our Canadian
subsidiary, E.D. Smith.
The Canadian assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses are translated into U.S. dollars at applicable exchange rates. Accordingly, we are exposed to volatility
in the translation of foreign currency earnings due to fluctuations in the value of the Canadian dollar, which may negatively impact the Company’s results of
operations and financial position.
As we are dependent upon a limited number of customers, the loss of a significant customer, or consolidation of our customer base, could
adversely affect our operating results.
A limited number of customers represent a large percentage of our consolidated net sales. Our operating results are contingent on our ability to maintain our
sales to these customers. The competition to supply products to these high volume customers is very strong. We expect that a significant portion of our net
sales will continue to be derived from a small number of customers, consisting primarily of traditional grocery retailers, mass merchandisers and foodservice
operators. For the year ended December 31, 2012, our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 55.2% our consolidated net sales. These customers
typically do not enter into written contracts, and the contracts that they do enter into generally are terminable at will. Our customers make purchase decisions
based on a combination of price, product quality and customer service performance. If our product sales to one or more of these customers are reduced, this
reduction may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.
Further, over the past several years, the retail grocery and foodservice industries have experienced a consolidation trend, with mass merchandisers gaining
market share. As our customer base continues to consolidate, we expect competition to intensify as we compete for the business of fewer large customers. As
this trend continues and such customers grow larger, they may seek to use their position to improve their profitability through improved efficiency, lower
pricing or increased promotional programs. If we are unable to use our scale, product innovation and category leadership positions to respond to these
demands, our profitability or volume growth could be negatively impacted. Additionally, if the surviving entity of a consolidation or similar transaction is not
a current customer of the Company, we may lose significant business once held with the acquired retailer.
Increases in input costs, such as ingredients, packaging materials and fuel costs, could adversely affect earnings.
The costs of raw materials, packaging materials and fuel, have varied widely in recent years and future changes in such costs may cause our results of
operations and our operating margins to fluctuate significantly. We experienced increases in costs of most raw materials in 2012 compared to 2011, that were
partially offset by decreases in packaging costs. We expect the volatile nature of these costs to continue with an overall upward trend.
We manage the impact of increases in the costs of raw materials, wherever possible, by locking in prices on quantities required to meet our production
requirements. In addition, we attempt to offset the effect of such increases by raising prices to our customers. However, changes in the prices of our products
may lag behind changes in the costs of our materials. Competitive pressures may also limit our ability to quickly raise prices in response to increased raw
materials, packaging and fuel costs. Accordingly, if we are unable to increase our prices to offset increasing raw material, packaging and fuel costs, our
operating profits and margins could be materially affected. In addition, in instances of declining input costs, customers may look for price reductions in
situations where we have locked into purchases at higher costs.
Our private label and regionally branded products may not be able to compete successfully with nationally branded products.
For sales of private label products to retailers, the principal competitive factors are price, product quality and quality of service. For sales of private label
products to consumers, the principal competitive factors are price and product quality. In many cases, competitors with nationally branded products have a
competitive advantage over private label products due to name recognition. In addition, when branded competitors focus on price and promotion, the
environment for private label producers becomes more challenging because the price difference between private label products and branded products may
become less significant.
Competition to obtain shelf space for our branded products with retailers is primarily based on the expected or historical performance of our product sales
relative to our competitors. The principal competitive factors for sales of our branded products to consumers are brand recognition and loyalty, product
quality, promotion and price. Most of our branded competitors have significantly greater resources and brand recognition than we do.
Competitive pressures or other factors could cause us to lose market share, which may require us to lower prices, increase the use of discounting or
promotional programs, or increase marketing expenditures, each of which would adversely affect our margins and could result in a decrease in our operating
results and profitability.
We operate in the highly competitive food industry.
We face competition across our product lines from other companies that have varying abilities to withstand changes in market conditions. Some of our
competitors have substantial financial, marketing and other resources, and competition with them in our various business segments and product lines could
cause us to reduce prices, increase capital, marketing or other expenditures, or lose category share, which could have a material adverse effect on our business
and financial results. Category share and growth could also be adversely impacted if we are not successful in introducing new products.
Some customer buying decisions are based on a periodic bidding process in which the successful bidder is assured the selling of its selected product to the
food retailer, super center or mass merchandiser until the next bidding process. Our sales volume may decrease significantly if our offer is too high and we
lose the ability to sell products through these channels, even temporarily. Alternatively, we risk reducing our margins if our offer is successful but below our
desired price points. Either of these outcomes may adversely affect our results of operations.
We may be unsuccessful in our future acquisition endeavors, if any, which may have an adverse effect on our business.
Consistent with our stated strategy, our future growth depends, in large part, on our acquisition of additional food manufacturing businesses, products or
processes. We may be unable to identify suitable targets, opportunistic or otherwise, for acquisition or make acquisitions at favorable prices. If we identify a
suitable acquisition candidate, our ability to successfully implement the acquisition would depend on a variety of factors, including our ability to obtain
financing on acceptable terms.
Acquisitions involve risks, including those associated with integrating the operations, financial reporting, disparate technologies and personnel of acquired
companies; managing geographically dispersed operations; the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; the inherent risks in
entering markets or lines of business in which we have either limited or no direct experience; unknown risks; and the potential loss of key employees,
customers and strategic partners of acquired companies. We may not successfully integrate businesses or technologies we acquire in the future and may not
achieve anticipated revenue and cost benefits. Acquisitions may not be accretive to our earnings and may negatively impact our results of operations due to,
among other things, the incurrence of debt, onetime write-offs of goodwill and amortization expenses of other intangible assets. In addition, future acquisitions
could result in dilutive issuances of equity securities.
We may be unable to anticipate changes in consumer preferences, which may result in decreased demand for our products.
Our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate the tastes, eating habits and overall purchasing trends of consumers and to offer products that appeal
to their preferences. Consumer preferences change from time to time, and our failure to anticipate, identify, or react to these changes could result in reduced
demand for our products, which would adversely affect our operating results and profitability.
We may be subject to product liability claims for misbranded, adulterated, contaminated or spoiled food products.
We sell food products for human consumption, which involves risks such as product contamination or spoilage, misbranding, product tampering, and other
adulteration of food products. Consumption of a misbranded, adulterated, contaminated or spoiled product may result in personal illness or injury. We could
be subject to claims or lawsuits relating to an actual or alleged illness or injury, and we could incur liabilities that are not insured or that exceed our insurance
coverage. Even if product liability claims against us are not successful or fully pursued, these claims could be costly and time consuming, and may require
management to spend time defending the claims rather than operating our business. A product that has been actually or allegedly misbranded or becomes
adulterated could result in product withdrawals, product recalls, destruction of product inventory, negative publicity, temporary plant closings, and
substantial costs of compliance or remediation. Any of these events, including a significant product liability judgment against us, could result in a loss of
confidence in our food products, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
New laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations could adversely affect our business.
The food industry is subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations, including those related to food safety, food labeling and
environmental matters. Governmental regulations also affect taxes and levies, healthcare costs, energy usage, international trade, immigration and other labor
issues, all of which may have a direct or indirect effect on our business or those of our customers or suppliers. Changes in these laws or regulations or the
introduction of new laws or regulations could increase the costs of doing business for us, our customers, or suppliers, or restrict our actions, causing our
results of operations to be adversely affected.
Increased government regulations to limit carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions as a result of concern over climate change may result in increased
compliance costs, capital expenditures and other financial obligations for us. We use natural gas, diesel fuel, and electricity in the manufacturing and distribution of our products. Legislation or regulation affecting
these inputs could materially affect our profitability. In addition, climate change could affect our ability to procure needed commodities at costs and in
quantities we currently experience, and may require us to make additional unplanned capital expenditures.
Our business operations could be disrupted if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately.
The efficient operation of our business depends on our information technology systems. We rely on our information technology systems to effectively manage
our business data, communications, supply chain, order entry and fulfillment, and other business processes. The failure of our information technology
systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and could result in transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, and the loss of sales and
customers, causing our business and results of operations to suffer. In addition, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to damage or
interruption from circumstances beyond our control, including fire, natural disasters, system failures, security breaches, and viruses. Any such damage or
interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business.
Changes in weather conditions, natural disasters and other events beyond our control could adversely affect our results of operations.
Changes in weather conditions and natural disasters such as floods, droughts, frosts, earthquakes, hurricanes, fires or pestilence, may affect the cost and
supply of commodities and raw materials. Additionally, these events could result in reduced supplies of raw materials. Our competitors may be affected
differently by weather conditions and natural disasters depending on the location of their suppliers and operations. Further, our earnings may be affected by
seasonal factors, including the seasonality of our supplies and consumer demand. Damage or disruption to our production or distribution capabilities due to
weather, natural disaster, fire, terrorism, pandemic, strikes or other reasons could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. Failure to take
adequate steps to reduce the likelihood or mitigate the potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, particularly when a
product is sourced from a single location, could adversely affect our business and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our
supply chain.
Our business could be harmed by strikes or work stoppages by our employees.
Currently, a significant number of our full-time distribution, production and maintenance employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. A
dispute with a union or employees represented by a union could result in production interruptions caused by work stoppages. If a strike or work stoppage were
to occur, our results of operations could be adversely affected.
