Significant factors that could impact the Company’s financial condition or results of operations include, 
without limitation, the following: 
• Risk of changes in the price and availability of raw materials - The principal ingredients used by the Company 
are subject to price volatility. Although the Company engages in commodity hedging transactions and annual 
supply agreements as well as leveraging the high volume of its annual purchases, the Company may experience 
price increases in these ingredients that it may not be able to offset, which could have an adverse impact on the 
Company’s results of operations and financial condition. In addition, although the Company has historically been 
able to procure sufficient supplies of its ingredients, market conditions could change such that adequate supplies 
might not be available or only become available at substantially higher costs. Adverse weather patterns, including 
the effects of climate change, could also significantly affect the cost and availability of these ingredients. 
• Risk of changes in product performance and competition - The Company competes with other well-established 
manufacturers of confectionery products. A failure of new or existing products to be favorably received, a failure 
to retain preferred shelf space at retail or a failure to sufficiently counter aggressive promotional and price 
competition could have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. 
• Risk of discounting and other competitive actions - Discounting and pricing pressure by the Company’s retail 
customers and other competitive actions could make it more difficult for the Company to maintain its operating 
margins. Actions taken by major customers and competitors may make shelf space less available for confectionary 
products or some of the Company’s products. 
• Risk of pricing actions – Inherent risks in the marketplace, including uncertainties about trade and consumer 
acceptance of pricing actions or product weight changes could make it more difficult for the Company to maintain 
its sales and operating margins. 
• Risk related to seasonality - The Company’s sales are highest during the Halloween season. Adverse 
circumstances surrounding Halloween, such as widespread weather events at that time of year or general changes 
in consumer interest in Halloween could significantly affect the Company’s sales. 
• Risk of dependence on large customers - The Company’s largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., accounted for 
approximately 23.7% of net product sales in 2015, and other large national chains are also material to the 
Company’s sales. The loss of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. or one or more other large customers, or a material decrease 
in purchases by one or more large customers, could result in decreased sales and adversely impact the Company’s 
results of operations and financial condition. 
Risk of changes in consumer preferences and tastes - Failure to adequately anticipate and react to changing 
demographics, consumer trends, consumer health concerns and product preferences, including product 
ingredients, could have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. 
• Risk of economic conditions on consumer purchases - The Company’s sales are impacted by consumer spending 
levels and impulse purchases which are affected by general macroeconomic conditions, consumer confidence, 
employment levels, disposable income, availability of consumer credit and interest rates on that credit, consumer 
debt levels, energy costs and other factors. Volatility in food and energy costs, rising unemployment and/or 
underemployment, declines in personal spending, and recessionary economic conditions could adversely impact 
the Company’s revenues, profitability and financial condition. 
• Risks related to environmental matters - The Company’s operations are not particularly impactful on the 
environment, but increased government environmental regulation or legislation could adversely impact the 
Company’s profitability. 
• Risks relating to participation in the multi-employer pension plan for certain Company union employees - As 
outlined in the notes to the consolidated financial statements and discussed in the Management’s Discussion & 
Analysis- , the Company participates in a multi-employer pension plan (Plan) which is currently in “critical and 
declining status”, as defined by applicable law. A designation of “critical and declining status” implies that the 
Plan is expected to become insolvent in the next 20 years. Under terms of a rehabilitation plan, the Company is 
to be assessed 5% annual compounded surcharges on its contributions to the Plan until such time as the Plan 
emerges from critical status. Should the Company withdraw from the Plan, it would subject to a significant 
withdrawal liability which is discussed in Note 7 of the Company’s Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
The Company is currently unable to determine the ultimate outcome of this matter and therefore, is unable to 
determine the effects on its consolidated financial statements, but, the ultimate outcome could be material to its 
consolidated results of operations in one or more future periods. 
• Risk of new governmental laws and regulations - Governmental laws and regulations, including those that affect 
food advertising and marketing, including products for children, use of ingredients in products, including the use 
of hydrogenated oils, new labeling requirements, income and other taxes and tariffs, including those targeted 
toward confectionery products, and the environment, both in and outside the U.S., are subject to change over 
time, which could adversely impact the Company’s results of operations and ability to compete in domestic or 
foreign marketplaces. 
• Risk of labor stoppages - To the extent the Company experiences any significant labor stoppages, such disputes 
or strikes could negatively affect shipments from suppliers or shipments of finished product. 
• Risk of impairment of goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets - In accordance with authoritative guidance, 
goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized but are subject to an impairment evaluation 
annually or more frequently upon the occurrence of a triggering event. Other long-lived assets are likewise tested 
for impairment upon the occurrence of a triggering event. Such evaluations are based on assumptions and 
variables including sales growth, profit margins and discount rates. Adverse changes in any of these variables 
could affect the carrying value of these intangible assets and the Company’s reported profitability. 
• Risk of the cost of energy increasing - Higher energy costs would likely result in higher distribution, freight and 
other operating costs. The Company may not be able to offset these cost increases or pass such cost increases 
onto customers in the form of price increases, which could have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of 
operations and financial condition. 
• Risk of a product recall - Issues related to the quality and safety of the Company’s products could result in a 
voluntary or involuntary large-scale product recall. Costs associated with a product recall and related litigation or 
fines, and marketing costs relating to the re-launch of such products or brands, could negatively affect operating 
results. In addition, negative publicity associated with this type of event, including a product recall relating to 
product contamination or product tampering, whether valid or not, could negatively impact future demand for the 
Company’s products. 
• Risk of operational interruptions relating to computer software or hardware failures - The Company is reliant on 
computer systems to operate its business. Software failure or corruption, including cyber-based attacks or network 
security breaches, or catastrophic hardware failures or other disasters could disrupt communications, supply chain 
planning and activities relating to sales demand forecasts, materials procurement, production and inventory 
planning, customer shipments, and financial and accounting, all of which could negatively impact sales and 
profits. 
• Risk of releasing sensitive information – Although the Company does not maintain a large amount of sensitive 
data, a system breach, whether inadvertent or perpetrated by hackers, could result in identity theft which could 
expose the Company to financial costs and adversely affect profitability. 
• Risk of production interruptions - The majority of the Company’s products are manufactured in a single 
production facility on specialized equipment. In the event of a disaster, such as a fire or earthquake, at a specific 
plant location, it would be difficult to transfer production to other facilities or a new location in a timely manner, 
which could result in loss of market share for the affected products. In addition, from time to time, the Company 
upgrades or replaces this specialized equipment. In many cases these are integrated and complex installations. 
A failure or delay in implementing such an installation could impact the availability of one or more of the 
Company’s products which would have an adverse impact on sales and profits. 
• Risk related to international operations - To the extent there is political or social unrest, civil war, terrorism or 
significant economic instability in the countries in which the Company operates, the results of the Company’s 
business in such countries could be adversely impacted. Currency exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. 
dollar and foreign currencies could also have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations and 
financial condition. The Company’s principal markets are the U.S.A., Canada, and Mexico. 
• Risk related to investments in marketable securities - The Company invests its surplus cash in a diversified 
portfolio of highly rated marketable securities, including corporate and tax exempt municipal bonds, with 
maturities of generally up to three years. Nonetheless, such investments could become impaired in the event of 
certain adverse economic and/or geopolitical events which, if severe, would adversely affect the Company’s 
financial condition. 
• Disruption to the Company’s supply chain could impair Company’s ability to produce or deliver its finished 
products, resulting in a negative impact on operating results - Disruption to the manufacturing operations or 
supply chain, some of which are discussed above, could result from, but are not limited to natural disasters, 
pandemic outbreak of disease, weather, fire or explosion, terrorism or other acts of violence, unavailability of 
ingredients or packaging materials, labor strikes or other labor activities, operational and/or financial instability 
of key suppliers, and other vendors or service providers. Although precautions are taken to mitigate the impact of 
possible disruptions, if the Company is unable, or if it is not financially feasible, to effectively mitigate the 
likelihood or potential impact of such disruptive events, the Company’s results of operations and financial 
condition could be negatively impacted. 
• Risk related to acquisitions – From time to time, the Company has purchased other confectionery companies or 
brands. These acquisitions generally come at a high multiple of earnings and are justified based on various 
assumptions related to sales growth, and operating margins. Were the Company to make another acquisition and 
be unable to achieve the assumed sales and operating margins, it could have an adverse impact on future sales 
and profits. In addition it could become necessary to record an impairment which would have a further adverse 
impact on reported profits. 
• Risk of further losses in Spain – The Company has restructured its Spanish subsidiaries and is exploring a variety 
of programs to increase sales and profitability. However, the outcome of these efforts is uncertain and additional 
losses could be reported from these business units. 
• The Company is a controlled company due to the common stock holdings of the Gordon family - The Gordon 
family’s share ownership represents a majority of the combined voting power of all classes of the Company’s 
common stock as of December 31, 2015. As a result, the Gordon family has the power to elect the Company’s 
directors and approve actions requiring the approval of the shareholders of the Company. 
The factors identified above are believed to be significant factors, but not necessarily all of the significant factors, that 
could impact the Company’s business. Unpredictable or unknown factors could also have material effects on the 
Company. 
Additional significant factors that may affect the Company’s operations, performance and business results include the risks 
and uncertainties listed from time to time in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the risk factors or 
uncertainties listed herein or listed in any document incorporated by reference herein. 
